title: Word Usage

# **Word Usage**


## **[Word of the Day: Idiosyncrasy](https://www.dailywritingtips.com/word-of-the-day-idiosyncrasy/)**



## **[Where or Whence](https://www.dailywritingtips.com/where-and-whence/)**



## **[Elude vs. Allude vs. Illude](https://www.dailywritingtips.com/elude-vs-allude-vs-illude/)**



## **[Misfeasance or Malfeasance](https://www.dailywritingtips.com/misfeasance-or-malfeasance/)**



## **[Prevaricate or Procrastinate](https://www.dailywritingtips.com/prevaricate-vs-procrastinate/)**



## **[Between or Among](https://www.dailywritingtips.com/between-and-among/)**




## **recommend & suggest**

* _recommend you to do_ or _recommend you do_?
* _suggest you for something_ or _suggest you do_?

See [ldoceonline: recommend](https://www.ldoceonline.com/dictionary/recommend), 
[stackexchange](https://english.stackexchange.com/questions/35953/recommend-you-to-vs-recommend-that-you),
[ldoceonline: suggest](https://www.ldoceonline.com/dictionary/suggest).

* I **recommend** {>>that<<} **you** define those parameters beforehand {>>my recommendation (to you) is that
  those parameters should be defined beforehand.<<}
* I **recommend you to define** those parameters beforehand {>>my recommendation (to some other currently
  unspecified person) is that you are the person best-suited to the task of defining those parameters beforehand.<<}

The verb _recommend_ always takes either a noun object or a subordinate clause as a complement, never an infinitive.

See [The Subjunctive](../../Grammar/06.Other/#the-subjunctive-1) and 
[Should in that-clauses](../../Grammar/07.UnitsFromMurphy/#unit-39-should-in-that-clauses-the-present-subjunctive).




## **work or job** --- [[1](https://www.espressoenglish.net/difference-between-job-work-and-career/)]

A **job** is a regular and official activity that you do, and receive money (a salary) for your activity. It is
also called a profession or an occupation. You can have **a full-time job** (40 hours per week) or
**a part-time job** (around 25 hours per week).

To **find a job**, you can check the **job listings** online or in the newspaper. The process of trying to get
a specific job --- when you send your resume or CV to a company --- is called **applying for a job**.

Unlike **work**, **job** is a countable noun:

* Right after graduating from college, I **worked two jobs** so that I could pay off my student loans faster.

The word **work** is more general than _job_ --- whereas _job_ is a specific occupation/profession, _work_
refers to general efforts and activities done to accomplish a goal. _Work_ can be done both inside an
official _job_ and outside a _job_!

* You can say _you work at / for (a company)_: "I work at General Motors."
* You can say _you’re working on (a project / task)_: "I’m working on a market analysis" or "I’m working on improving customer satisfaction."

The word **work** also refers to the context of your place of employment:

* I **start work at** 7 AM.
* I **finish / leave work** at 4:30.
* We **go to work** by car.
* I went to the bar with some friends **from work**.
* I can’t access Facebook when **I’m at work**




## **error or mistake** --- [[1](https://www.quora.com/What-is-the-difference-between-a-mistake-and-an-error)]
There is some overlap in these terms, which both refer to a "wrong" action. But there are also significant
differences in usage and connotation.

A **mistake**, generally speaking, is a choice that turns out to be wrong. It could be something you decide
to do on your own initiative that you later regret:

* You're **making a mistake** --- you'll regret this!
* Coming here **was a mistake** --- this trip has been a waste of my time.

... or a misidentification or miscalculation where a wrong answer is produced:

* I thought it was her, but **I was mistaken**.
* That can't be his fingerprints, the computer **must have made a mistake**!

A **mistake** is wrong because the outcome is found to be wrong. Mistakes are made when a free choice is made,
and later called _mistakes_ when they score badly in the context of the goal of determining a particular
answer, or else they simply turn out to be bad choices in some later assessment.

**Errors**, on the other hand, are made with reference to some ideal code, model, or set of rules that would
have dictated a different action. The action was wrong because it was different from the
"right" or normal one under the circumstances.

In sports, particular rules violations are **errors**.  A **mistake** would be the coach or the referee
making a poor strategic decision or a wrong call.





## **bad or badly** --- [[1](https://www.dailywritingtips.com/bad-vs-badly/)]

And other adverbs that can be flat (with _-ly_ and without _-ly_, chaning meaning) --- see the link above.





## **happen to or happen with** --- [[1](https://thegrammarexchange.infopop.cc/topic/happen-to-or-happen-with)]

**What happened to you** means what affected you, what event had impact on you.

* A: You're really late. And you're limping. **What happened to you**?
* B: I fell on my way here and sprained my ankle. But, I wouldn't let that stop me from meeting you. I came anyway, late or not.

**What happened with you** means what's going on with you, what's up with you.

* A: You were really ugly at the meeting today. **What happened with you**?
* B: Ugly? I guess I'm just tired of having all the work dropped on me. One of these days, I'm just going to quit.





## **know about or know of** --- [[1](https://english.stackexchange.com/questions/29869/know-about-vs-know-of)], [[2](https://www.ldoceonline.com/dictionary/know)]
* _know of_ = _heard of_
* _know about_ = know and understand a lot

I would use the expression "I know Smith" if I have had personal experiences with the person.

_know about_ means that I have heard many things about this person, or have researched him (such as if I
were to say "_I know about Einstein, he invented general relativity_"):

* I **know about** tensor calculus {>>I have learned this subject and can do the calculations<<}

_know of_ suggests that I have merely heard of this person in passing, or have a very limited knowledge of
this person (such as if I were to say "_I know of Madame Curie_", the emphasis being on the word _of_,
and usually as a reply to someone asking "_Have you heard of Madame Curie?_"):

* I **know of** tensor calculus {>>I have heard the name, but that is about all I know<<}





## **my friend or a friend of mine** --- [[1]()]
* **my friend** denotes some specific friend (the friend, _my_ == _the_).
* Whereas, **a friend of mine** denotes some friend (one of).





## **on the contrary or in contrast** --- [[1](https://english.stackexchange.com/questions/101781/whats-the-difference-between-on-the-contrary-and-in-contrast)]
**On the contrary** is used to show that one idea/statement is wrong, whereas another one is right,
according to speaker's point of view (speaker's point of view does exist):

* Some people think that capital punishment is a deterrent. **On the contrary**, it is no such thing,
  as the experience of many countries has shown.
* Your friend tells you she is moving to New York and you express surprise because you thought she hated big
  cities. She replies, “**On the contrary**, I’ve always wanted to live in an urban area.”

**In contrast** is used to show _differences_ between two ideas/statements. Speaker does not interpret one
of them as wrong and another one as right (both of them could be true or false, it just does not matter):

* The music of Wagner and Mahler calls for large orchestras. **In contrast**, the music of a composer like
  Mozart can be performed with a relatively small number of musicians.
* In New York, you don’t need a car. In Los Angeles, **in contrast**, you can’t really get along without
  one, though you won’t need a snow shovel.

Here’s a simple test: if you could possibly substitute _that’s wrong_ the phrase you want is
**on the contrary** (or **to the contrary**). If not, then use **in contrast**.





## **how do you call or what do you call** --- [[1](https://forum.wordreference.com/threads/%E2%80%9Chow-do-you-call-it%E2%80%9D-or-%E2%80%9Cwhat-do-you-call-it%E2%80%9D.1343917/)]
It is not natural English to say "_How do you call it?_" to mean "_What is the English word for that?_"
The only situation I could imagine in which "_how do you call it?_" is correct is if you are asking for
information about the correct manner of summoning (or "calling") something.

* **How do you say/pronounce** 'Extraordinary'? {>>Asking about a sound or a method of speech<<}
* **What do you call him**? {>>Asking about an object or person<<}





## **speak in English or speak English** --- [[1](https://ell.stackexchange.com/questions/32059/is-any-difference-between-speak-english-and-speak-in-english)]

* **speak English** refers to an ability.
* **speak in English** refers to a language choice.

Examples:

* Do you **speak English**? {>>Do you know English well enough to use it verbally?<<}
* Could you **speak in English**? {>>I'd like to request that you speak English instead of some other language.<<}





## **Prepositions** --- [[1](https://www.englishpage.com/gerunds/adjective_prep_gerund_list.htm)], [[2](https://www.englishpage.com/gerunds/noun_prep_gerund_list.htm)]


* She **is afraid of** speaking in public.
* Norma **is anxious about** making the presentation. (anxiety about + Ving)
* I **am bored of** doing the same old job.
* He **is capable of** winning a gold medal.
* Nancy **was concerned about** being late.
* Tim **is content with** winning second place.
* Fiona **was disappointed with** coming in third place.
* He **was discouraged by** not getting the job.
* The researcher **was excited about** going to Africa.
* That actor **is famous for** being extremely weird.
* She **is fond of** having picnics. (fondness for + Ving)
* She **is frightened of** being alone at night.
* The banker **was guilty of** stealing money.
* He **was happy about** winning the lottery.
* She **is interested in** becoming a doctor. (interest in + Ving)
* He **was involved in** making the movie.
* She **was known for** causing problems.
* He **was proud of** having completed the marathon.
* She **is remembered for** protecting mountain gorillas.
* He **is responsible for** causing the damage. (responsibility for + Ving)
* Tina **is scared of** being alone at night.
* The surfer **is terrified of** being attacked by a shark.
* She **is tired from** working all day.
* Margaret **is tired of** making dinner every night.
* The hikers **were worried about** not having enough water. 
* He has **the advantage of** speaking English fluently.
* His **belief in** not harming animals was something he learned from his mother.
* She **took credit for** improving the filing system.
* The **delay in** processing the visa caused problems.
* The **disadvantage of** flying is that you can't see the scenery along the way.
* She has a great deal of **experience in** introducing new products to international markets.
* His **fear of** flying made travel difficult.
* His **habit of** smoking in restaurants caused many problems in California.
* Her **knowledge of** climbing helped her during the competition.
* His **love of** singing developed when he was a child.
* Their **memories of** traveling in Africa will stay with them forever.
* I think his **preference for** speaking his native language is natural.
* The criminal's **regret for** committing the crime did not convince the judge.
* The **process of** painting such a large mural is more complicated than you might think.
* The main **reason for** taking the course is to improve your language skills.
* The magazine's **report on** choosing the right car was not well researched.
* Her **reputation for** lying is well known.
* I don't know if I believe his **story about** seeing a UFO.
* His **talent for** learning languages was impressive.
* **ask a favour of** my parents
* **work hard at**
* He was totally **focused on** winning.
* **get better at**
* **have the opportunity to do** something
* **practise something**
* Bloggers **pay attention to** what is going on in the world.
* He is **waiting for** her girlfriend.
* She **has a talent for** finding a bargain.
* He **has an aptitude for** maths.
* The **film picks up on** the difficulties people experienced during the war.
* I **am useless at** ball sport.
* I **am hopeless at** geography.
* He **is gifted at** painting.
* We **pay for** the pizza.
* He **is an expert in** Italian art.
* He **has a lot of ability as** a dancer.


### _to_ as preposition:
* I am **looking forward to** seeing you.
* I am **used to** waiting for buses.
* I am **prone to** leaving things until the last minute.
* After living in a house with a garden, it's hard to **adapt to** living in a flat.
* A quarter of all workers **admit to** taking time off when they are not ill.
* No one **owned up to** breaking the window.
* People become so desperate to make contact with beasts and fowl that they **resort to** going on nature trails.
* She didn't really **take to** studying English.
* When will you **get around to** mowing the grass?
* He is **accustomed to** having his own office. (addiction to + Ving)
* She is **addicted to** watching TV.
* She is **committed to** improving her English.
* The organization is **dedicated to** ending poverty. (dedication to + Ving)
* The money will be **devoted to** protecting the environment. (devotion to + Ving)
* They are **opposed to** building a new road in the park.
* His **reaction to** winning the prize was quite funny.
* I **objected to** having to rewrite the article.
* He **confessed to** having a secret admiration for his opponent.
* My parents had trouble **adjusting to** living in an apartment.
* He has clearly **committed** his government **to** continuing down the path of economic reform
