title: Related Words

# **Related Words**


### [The Common People](https://www.dailywritingtips.com/10-terms-for-the-common-people/)
Bourgeoisie, Great unwashed, Hoi polloi, Little people, Mob, Peons, Plebeians, Proles, Rank and file, Riffraff


### [Numskulls & Nincompoops](https://www.dailywritingtips.com/numskulls-noodles-and-nincompoops/)
cretin, wit, half-wit, nitwit, twit, ninny, noodle, numskull, nincompoop, simpleton, dunce, gonzo, dumbass 


### [Forms of Ridicule](https://www.dailywritingtips.com/satire-parody-and-other-forms-of-ridicule/)
satire, parody. Informal: spoof, take-off, send-up, caricature, lampoon, burlesque


### [Degrees of being drunk](https://www.dailywritingtips.com/how-drunk-are-you-let-me-count-the-ways/)

mildly drunk

:   tipsy, silly, tight, woozy

drunk

:   inebriated, intoxicated, tanked, juiced, likkered up

very drunk 

:   smashed, hammered, plastered, shitfaced, soused, sloshed, wasted, zonked, loaded, stinko

idioms

:   drunk as a lord, in his cups, feeling no pain, drunk as a skunk, three sheets to the wind




### [Words to Describe Fearful Recoil](https://www.dailywritingtips.com/words-to-describe-fearful-recoil/)
* **flinch** --- to draw away in anticipation of pain.
* **shrink** --- to draw back as if trying to make one’s body smaller. One might shrink into the shadows in an
  attempt to become invisible.
* **wince** --- One might wince from pain, real or anticipated.
* **blench** --- It means “move suddenly, wince, or dodge.”
* **cower** --- probably comes from a German word meaning “to lie in wait.” In current usage it conveys a cowardly
  or fearful movement.
* **cringe** --- In Old English the word could mean “to fall dead in battle.” Now it has the less final meaning of
  “to draw back” or “move in a fearful manner.”
* **grovel** --- This is a word to use when the action takes place close to the ground. It conveys the sense of
  demonstrating servility by dropping onto one’s knees, or even going face down. Figuratively it can be used
  of people too eager to please.
* **quail** --- Although spelled the same as the name of the game bird, the verb to quail, “to lose courage, to
  shrink,” is not related. Its origin is uncertain. Words meaning “to be ill,” “to die,” and “to curdle” have
  been suggested. In current usage, quail means “to draw away in fear or weakness.”



### [Rebut, Refute, Deny](https://www.dailywritingtips.com/rebut-refute-deny/)
**To deny** a statement is simply that. If I say ‘all dogs are grey’, then if you deny or contradict that statement
all you have to do is say: ‘No, they’re not.’

However, if you wanted **to rebut** my statement, you would have to provide a well thought out and reasoned argument
that suggests that I might be wrong. This is used in debates, where speakers present evidence that supports a
counter argument.

In order **to refute** my statement about dogs, you would have to prove it wrong, perhaps by showing me a dog of
a different color.



### [How to Describe Gibberish](https://www.dailywritingtips.com/how-to-describe-gibberish/)
**Double Dutch** is another expression meaning “incomprehensible speech.” The “Dutch” refers to the idea that
a foreign language is incomprehensible to one who hasn’t learned it. The “double” is an intensifier. “Double Dutch” is a language twice as difficult to understand as “plain ‘Dutch’”.

**babble**: probably an imitative word suggesting baby talk. I used to think it came from the story of the
Tower of Babel, but apparently no etymological connection can be traced. The meaning “to repeat oneself
incoherently” is known from about 1418.

**balderdash**: originally referred to a jumbled mix of liquors, for example milk and beer or beer and wine.
In 1674 it meant “senseless jumble of words.”

**baloney**: warning: American slang!

**bilge**: “stupid talk or writing” The bilge is the “lowest internal part of a ship.” A lot of nasty stuff
accumulates there.

**blather**: “nonsensical talk” May have come into English via Scots dialect from a Scandinavian word
meaning “babble.”

**bull**: Most of us probably think of “bull” as short for “bullshit,” but bull with the meaning “trivial
or false statements,” has been around since Middle English. The ME word probably derived from French boul
meaning “false talk, fraud.” It may be connected to modern Icelandic bull meaning “nonsense.” Bullshit is
American slang dating from 1915 with the meaning “eloquent and insincere rhetoric.”

**bunk**: warning: American slang!

**drivel**: “stupid or senseless talk.” This one comes from OE dreflian, “to dribble or run at the nose.”

**eyewash**: “blarney, humbug.” According to the OnlineEtymologyDictionary, this expression is chiefly
British, is perhaps from the notion of “something intended to obscure or conceal facts or true motives.”
But this, and expression my eye also may be the verbal equivalent of the wink that indicates one doesn’t
believe what has been said (cf. Fr. mon oeil in same sense, accompanied by a knowing pointing of a finger
to the eye).

**gibberish**: probably another imitative word suggesting the sound of chatter. Gibberish is totally
unintelligible.

**gobbledygook**: “unclear, wordy jargon.” This is another word we owe to the sphere of politics. In
another post I mentioned the eponym “maverick” that comes from the surname of rancher Samuel Maverick
(1803-1870). The word gobbledygook was coined in 1944 by one of his grandsons, Texas representative Maury
Maverick. In a memo dated March 30, 1944, he banned the use of “gobbledygook language” and threatened to
shoot anyone who used the words activation or implementation. He said he based the word on the sound a
turkey makes.

**guff**: “empty talk, nonsense.” This is another word of imitative origin, possibly based on puff.

**hogwash**: “worthless, false or ridiculous speech or writing.” Originally hogwash was slops fed to pigs.
Then it came to mean “cheap liquor.” The meaning “inferior writing” dates from 1773.

**jargon**: The word entered English with the meaning “unintelligible talk, gibberish” in 1340. It derives
from a French word meaning “a chattering of birds.” Now it can mean technical terminology associated with a
specific occupation. Practitioners understand jargon, but to those not in the know, it’s gibberish.

**mumbo jumbo**: “unintelligible or incomprehensible language.” The term is supposed to derive from an African
idol in the Niger region, but no likely source has been found. The meaning “big, empty talk” is documented
from 1896.

**piffle**: “foolish or futile talk or ideas.” Probably an imitative word derived from a contemptuous blowing
sound, or it could be a conflation of trifle and piddle.

**poppycock**: “senseless talk, nonsense.” This one sounds comical, but if you think about it, it’s as
disgusting as bilge.

**prattle**: “idle or meaningless chatter.” This is another imitative word. The verb is prate.

**tripe**: “something of no value.” The literal meaning of tripe is the rubbery lining of the stomach of
cattle or other ruminants, used as food. ---Answers.com

**twaddle**: “silly talk.” The origin is unknown.



### [Words to Describe Degrees of Religiosity](https://www.dailywritingtips.com/words-to-describe-degrees-of-religiosity/)
**religious** --- “dedicated to religious practice; observant practitioner of a particular religion.”

**pious** --- in earlier writers, pious was used in a positive sense of loyalty to religion, family, and
those things for which a person might be expected to feel reverence. Current usage tends to tinge the word with hypocrisy.

**godly** --- pleasing to God. One speaks of a godly person or a godly life.

**fervent** --- derives from a Latin word meaning “to boil” or “to be very hot.” A fervent person is one
that feels very intensely about a subject. The subject does not need to be religious in nature. One can be
a fervent Catholic, or a fervent environmentalist. Or both.

**zealous**--- This adjective derives from the noun Zealot. The Zealots were fanatics who resorted to
assassination and other acts of terrorism that eventually resulted in the destruction of the Temple and
the expulsion of the Jews from Jerusalem. Zealous, therefore, can carry the sense of intense fanaticism
that will stop at nothing to promote its cause.

**devout** --- from the verb devote, “to set apart.” The word connotes a sense of consecration. A devout
person practices religion from genuine feeling of reverence for the object of worship.

**sanctimonious** --- It derives from the Latin word for “holy.” A sanctimonious life could be one that
reflects good deeds and devout religious observance. In current usage, however, sanctimonious carries the
sense of hypocrisy. Indeed, a common expression is “sanctimonious hypocrite.” A sanctimonious person is like
the Pharisee who prays and gives alms in public so that everyone can admire him for it. A sanctimonious person
is always reminding people of their shortcomings.

**fanatic**--- A “fanatic” is out of control, at least as regards a particular subject. Winston Churchill
defined a fanatic as “someone who can’t change his mind and won’t change the subject.”




### [The Difference Between e.g. and i.e.](https://www.dailywritingtips.com/the-difference-between-eg-and-ie/)



### Dangerous
perilous precarious, hazardous, risky, unsafe

### Decide
determine, settle, choose, resolve

### Fall
drop, descend, plunge, topple down, tumble

### New
fresh, unique, original, unusual, novel, modern, current, recent

### Awful
culpable, dreadful, terrible, poor, unpleasant, hideous, abominable, repulsive, grunge, sordid, rebarbative
reprehensible, (see bad)

### Definite
certain, sure, positive, determined, clear, distinct, obvious

### Great
noteworthy, worthy, distinguished, remarkable, grand, considerable, powerful, much, mighty, resplendent, see beautiful

### Thin
gaunt, slim, slender, lean, spare, skinny, slight, scrawny, voracious - ravenous - insatiable - emaciated - nourish - malnourished, skeletal

### Gross
improper, rude, coarse, indecent, crude, vulgar, outrageous, egregious, flagrant, extreme, grievous, shameful, uncouth, obscene

### Moody
temperamental, changeable, short-tempered, glum, morose, sullen, mopish, irritable, testy, peevish, fretful, spiteful, sulky, touchy

### Happy
pleased, contented, satisfied, delighted, elated, joyful, cheerful, ecstatic, jubilant, gay, tickled,
gratified, glad, blissful, overjoyed, shivoo, jamboree, fete, maffick, exultation, jaunty, jovially, genial,
sanguine, gleefully, upbeat, blithesome - blithe, grateful, merry (see merrily), cheerful, elated / elation,
euphoria, exhilaration, see excitement, with bated breath - agog, boisterous, tempestuous, exult, ebullient,
abubble, craic, (see merrily)

### Neat
clean, orderly, tidy, trim, dapper, natty, smart, elegant, well-organized, uper, desirable, spruce, shipshape,
well-kept, shapely, immaculate, spotless

### Mischievous
puckish, frolic / frolicsome, antic, impish, serenity?, puerile, airily, levity, verdant (?), prankish, playful,
naughty, roguish, waggish, sportive, obnoxious - pester - importune - badger - peeve - rag

### Sad
cheerless, somber, low-spirited, gloomy, doleful, forlorn, dismal, depressed, bereaved, frown, sulky, crossly,
mournfully, sobbed, moaned, lamented (lamentation), lachrymose, grieve, bemoan, disconsolate

### Angry
sullen, impassioned, displeased, offended, resentful, vexed, indignant, enraged, outraged, furious, livid

### Confused
dazed, muddled, puzzled, to be beleaguered - beset?, perplexed, baffled, rattled, flustered,
confounded - refute - rebut, abash, dumbfounded, bewildered, see surprised, befuddle, disconcert, flummox

### Amazing
incredible, unbelievable, improbable, fabulous, wonderful - wondrous, fantastic, astonishing, astounding,
extraordinary, inconceivable, ineffable, see chimerical

### Tasty
delicious, scrumptious, savoury, delectable, appetising, palatable, delightful, enjoyable, toothsome, mouth-watering

### Hate
despise, loathe, detest, abhor, disfavor, dislike, disapprove, abominate, grudge, (see bad, awful)

### Mark
label, tag, price, ticket, impress, effect, trace - vestige, imprint, stamp, brand, sign, note, heed, notice, designate

### Have
hold, possess, own, contain, acquire, gain, maintain, believe, bear

### Cause
ramifications, beget - engender, see instigate, consequences, repercussions, result in,
It originated in/from..., It all started ..., It has its origins/roots in ..., It can be traced back / attributed to ..., It stems from ...

### Help
aid, avail, assist, support - espouse, encourage, back, wait on, serve, relieve, succour, benefit, befriend, abet

### Make
create, originate, invent, see beget, form, construct, design, fabricate, manufacture, produce, build,
develop, do, effect, execute, compose, perform, accomplish, earn, gain, obtain, acquire, get

### Destroy
ruin, demolish, raze, waste, eradicate, obliterate, exterminate, deracinate, root out, devour

### Describe
see the reporting verbs above.

portray, characterise, picture, narrate, relate, recount, represent, report

### Begin/start
set off, set about, open, launch, initiate, commence, inaugurate, originate, embarked, instigate, see goad,
loose, bring about, the onset of something, ferment, stir up, incite, spark off, ignite, propel

### Difference
disagreement, inequity, contrast, dissimilarity, incompatibility, discrepancy, far cry

### Surprised
awestruck, agape, shocked, aghast, taken aback, stunned, alarmed, nonplussed, bepuzzle, overwhelmed, floored,
speechless, flabbergasted, bedazzle / bedazzled, befool, caught off guard, dumbstruck, see confused,
see beguile, suspense

### Dark
shadowy, unlit, murky, gloomy, dim, dusky, shaded, sunless, black, dismal, sombre

### Funny
humorous, amusing, droll, comic, comical, laughable, silly

### Old
feeble, frail, ancient, weak, aged, used, worn, ramshackle, run-down, derelict, shabby, dingy, seedy?,
dilapidated, ragged, faded, broken-down, former, old-fashioned, outmoded, passe, veteran, mature, venerable,
primitive, traditional, archaic, conventional, customary, stale, musty, obsolete, extinct, poky,
squalid, dismal, squalor

### Hide
conceal, cover, mask, cloak, camouflage, screen, shroud, veil, disguise, conceal

### Part
portion, apportion, allocate, share, piece, allot/allotment, section, fraction, fragment, impart, give

### Secretly
clandestine, collude, conspire

### Place
space, area, spot, plot, region, location, situation, position, residence, dwelling, set, site, station, status, state

### Do
execute, enact, carry out, conclude, accomplish, conduct

### Fair
just, impartial, unbiased, objective, unprejudiced, honest

### Fly
soar, hover, flit, wing, flee, waft - see emanate, glide

### Enjoy
appreciate, delight in, be pleased, indulge in - condone, luxuriate in, bask in, revel, relish, savour, like

### Explain
elaborate, clarify, define, interpret, justify, account for, contemplate, elucidate, construe, adduce

### End
stop, finish, terminate, close, halt, cessation, discontinuance, desuetude, obsolescence, lorn, extinct,
moribund, senectitude, senile - doddering, in the sere and yellow - of advanced years, elderly, shrivelled,
decrepitude, terminus, obsolete, passe, gadzookery, antiquated, draw on - come to the end, cease, stay, pause
discontinue, conclude, quit

### Hurry
trot, rush, run, speed, race, hasten, urge, accelerate, bustle, see fast

### Disappointed
feel let down, disillusioned, disenchanted, gutted, crestfallen / crest-fallen

### Hurt
damage, harm, injure, wound, distress, afflict, pain, scathe, harrow

### Idea
thought, concept, conception, notion, understanding, apprehension, opinion, plan, view, belief

### Love
adore, like, admire, esteem, fancy, care for, cherish, treasure, worship, appreciate, savour, carol

### Important
necessary, vital, critical, indispensable, valuable, essential, significant, primary, principal, considerable,
famous, crucial, distinguished, notable, well-known, to be of paramount importance, to be imperative that, momentous


### Beautiful
pretty, lovely, handsome, attractive, gorgeous, dazzling, splendid, magnificent, comely, fair, ravishing,
graceful, elegant, fine, exquisite, aesthetic, pleasing, shapely, delicate, stunning, glorious, heavenly,
celestial, sublime, inimitable

### Boring
dull, tiring, tiresome, uninteresting, slow, dumb, stupid, unimaginative, lifeless, dead, insensible, tedious,
wearisome, listless, expressionless, plain, monotonous, humdrum, platitudinous, mundane, mediocre, bland,
rigmarole, dreary, see blase - nonchalant - ..., see jaded

### Big
immense, enormous, huge, gigantic, vast, colossal, gargantuan, large, sizeable, grand, great, tall,
substantial, mammoth, astronomical, ample, broad, expansive, spacious, tremendous, titanic, mountainous

### Look
gaze, see, glance, watch, survey, study, seek, search for, peek, peep, glimpse, stare, contemplate, examine,
gape, ogle, scrutinize, inspect, behold, observe, view, witness, perceive, spy, sight, discover, notice,
recognise, peer, eye, gawk, peruse, explore, scowl at, leer - askance, squint, dart, behold, gawp, see frown

### Brave
courageous, fearless, dauntless, intrepid, plucky - decisive, resolute, daring, heroic, valorous, audacious,
bold, valiant, doughty, mettlesome, brash, impertinent, incogitant - folly?, rash - hasty, deliriously,
imprudent, stout, as bold as brass, see adamant

### Calm (see Lazy)
quiet, peaceful, still, tranquil, mild, serene - limpid?, smooth, composed, collected, unruffled,
level-headed, unexcited, detached, aloof, lackadaisical, blase, lukewarm, benumb(?), tepid, jaded, nonchalant,
unconcerned, insouciance, abstemious, slumberous, lassitude, remiss, languid, torporific
sooth, mollify, placate, assuage, reassure - allay ((somebody’s) fear / concern / suspicion)

ant: spry, see senectitude

### Kill (see Destroy)
slay, execute, assassinate, murder, destroy, cancel, abolish

### Plan
plot, scheme, design, draw, map, diagram, procedure, arrangement, intention, device, contrivance, method, way, blueprint

### Keep
hold, retain, withhold, preserve, maintain, sustain

### Lazy (see Calm)
dilatory, tardy, indolent, slothful, idle, inactive, sluggish

### Little
tiny, small, diminutive, miniscule, runt, miniature, puny - futile, exiguous, dinky, limited, microscopic,
slight, petite, minute, belittle - downplay - depreciatory

### Popular
well-liked, approved, accepted, favourite, celebrated, common, current


### Good
excellent, fine, superior, wonderful, marvellous, apt, satisfactory, safe, advantageous, valid, salubrious,
beneficial, splendid, great, noble, worthy, first-rate, top-notch, sterling, superb, edifying,
see commendable - commendation, meritorious, meed?, laudable, lofty, gratifying

### Get
acquire, obtain, secure, procure, provide, gain, fetch, find, score, accumulate, win, earn, catch, derive,
collect, gather, glean, pick up, regain, amass, garner

### Bad
atrocious, evil, immoral, wicked, corrupt, sinful, vice - vicious, depraved, rotten, contaminated, spoiled,
tainted, harmful, injurious, unfavourable, defective, inferior, imperfect, substandard, faulty, improper,
inappropriate, unsuitable, untenable, disagreeable, unpleasant, cross, nasty, unfriendly, horrible, outrageous,
scandalous, infamous, see wrong, noxious, sinister, putrid, deplorable, heinous, nefarious (see behaviour),
obnoxious, detestable, despicable, contemptible, foul, execrable, (see awful)

### Interesting
compelling, gripping, fascinating, intriguing, captivating, sapid, engaging, keen, attractive, intriguing,
provocative, though-provoking, challenging, inspiring, exciting, entertaining, engrossing, absorbing,
enthralling, curious, appealing, beguile, riveting, exhilarating, thrilling

tantalise, seduce, tempt, bait, lure, allure, mesmerise, spellbind, enchanting, attracting, bewitching,
entice (enticing), transfixed, preoccupied, to be infatuated with, besot?, ~rapt, engrossedr, enraptured,
enthralled, riveted upon, see surprising

### Bright
shining, shiny, brilliant, shimmering, vivid, colourful, luminous, incandescent, effulgent, sheen,
lustrous - ant lacklustre - glisten, glint, sparkling, gleaming, coruscant, scintillating, glitter, twinkling,
glimmer, radiant, glowing, blooming

intelligent, knowing, quick-witted, smart, intellectual, discerning,, perspicacious, omniscient,
shrewd / shrewdly, astute, acute, acumen, sagacious, trenchant, pellucid, knowledgeable, cognisant,
grok, (see think)

### Want
long, strive, yearn, itch, aspire/aspirant , plod, wade, crave, hanker after/for, somebody’s penchant for something, see ardour

### Predicament
quagmire, plight, quandary, predicament, flounder, precipice, abyss, dilemma, pickle, problem, spot, scrape, jam, chasm, the toils of something

### Put
place, set, attach, establish, assign, keep, save, set aside, effect, achieve, do, build

### Quiet
silent, still, soundless, mute, tranquil, peaceful, calm, restful

### Right
correct, accurate, factual, true, good, just, honest, upright, lawful, moral, proper, suitable, apt, legal, fair, aright

### True
veracity - verisimilar - verisimilitude, truthfulness, verity, sincerity, candour, honesty, accurate, right,
proper, precise, exact, valid, genuine - bona fide, real, actual, trusty, steady, loyal, dependable, sincere,
see staunch, see stalwart

### Slow
unhurried, gradual, leisurely, late, behind, tedious, slack

### Story
tale, myth, legend, fable, yarn, account, narrative, chronicle, epic, sage, anecdote, record, memoir

### Strange
odd, peculiar, unusual, unfamiliar, uncommon, quirky, queer - qeer, weird, outlandish, curious, unique,
exclusive, irregular, preposterous, see bad

### Take
hold, catch, seize, grasp, win, capture, acquire, pick, choose, select, prefer, remove, steal, lift, rob,
engage, bewitch, purchase, buy, retract, recall, assume, occupy, consume

### Trouble
distress, anguish, anxiety, worry, wretchedness, pain, danger, peril, disaster, grief, misfortune, difficulty,
concern, pains, inconvenience, exertion, effort, see predicament

### Annoy
exasperate, get my dander up, grates on my ear

### Ugly
see hideous, frightful, frightening, shocking, horrible, unpleasant, monstrous, terrifying, gross, grisly,
ghastly, horrid, unsightly, plain, homely, evil, see repulsive, repugnant, gruesome

### Unhappy
miserable, uncomfortable, wretched, heart-broken, unfortunate, poor, downhearted, sorrowful, depressed,
dejected, melancholy, glum, see gloomy, dismal, discouraged, see sad, see disappointed

### Use
employ, utilize, exhaust, spend, expend, consume, exercise, dispose

### Wrong
incorrect, inaccurate, mistaken, erroneous, improper, unsuitable, go awry

### False
fake, fraudulent, counterfeit, spurious, untrue, unfounded, erroneous, deceptive, groundless, fallacious,
hoax, con(-man), bogus, purloin, heist, delude, snide

### Famous
household name, well-known, renowned, celebrated, famed, eminent, illustrious, distinguished, noted, notorious, celebrity

### Fast
at the drop of a hat, dashing, fleet, quick, rapid, speedy, hasty, rash, instantaneous, evanescent, snappy,
swiftly, lickety-split, posthaste, hastily, expeditiously, like a flash, flit, apace, see run, fly, hurry

### Fat
stout, corpulent, fleshy, beefy, paunchy, plump, full, rotund, tubby, pudgy, chubby, chunky, stubby, burly, pinguid, oleaginous

### Fear
fright, dread, terror, alarm, dismay, anxiety, scare, awe, trepidation, horror, panic, apprehension, vibe,
foreboding, bespeak, harbinger, smell a rat, misgiving, doubt, presentiment, impending - imminent, menace,
eerie, otherworldly, omen, ill-omen, awestruck, consternation, gloomy, menacing, eldritch, ghastly, horrendous,
have a feeling in/at the pit of your stomach, browbeat, bully, intimidate, see subdue

### Come to existence
flourish, pullulate, burgeon, proliferate, arise from, stem from, emerge (from), nascent, emanating / emanate,
incipient, beginning, commence

### Use
draw on

### Tired
exhausted - exhausting, debilitate / debilitating, laborious, torment (-ed), weary

### Scared
afraid, frightened, alarmed, terrified, panicked, fearful, unnerved, insecure, timid, shy, skittish, jumpy,
disquieted, worried, vexed, troubled, disturbed, horrified, terrorized, shocked, petrified, haunted, timorous,
shrinking, tremulous, stupefied, paralyzed, stunned, apprehensive, ovine

### Show
display, exhibit, present, expose, note, point to, indicate, explain, reveal, prove, demonstrate

### Think

suppose

:   reckon, deem, conjecture, suspect, presume, suppose, believe, assume, guess, I'll wager, I'll be bound,
    surmise, guess, sure, bet, venture, methinks, bethink, consider, see bright - perspicacious,
    see Reporting & Speaking verbs



thought process:

:   fathom, judge, reflect, mediate, pore over, mull over, talk over, contemplate, elaborate, deliberate,
    cerebrate, premeditate, gather, peruse, scrutinise, study, scrutinise, delve, pensive, circumspect



come up with, We have hit on a new idea for, His mind alighted in several possible answers, devise, conceive, contrive






### Personal qualities

* adamant - unwavering - impregnable - intransigent - recalcitrant - tenacious/tenacity (perseverance - 
  pursue - robust) - contumacious - obstinate - disobedient - relentless? - reluctant? - rambunctious - 
  unflinching - staunch - flout - intractable - stubborn - stark - fortitude - inexorable? - sturdy.
  stalwart/allegiance - defiant - headstrong - indefatigable.

    Ant: falter/faltering - wishy-washy - irresolute / irresolution - pendulous - vacillate - qualm - not
    sure - ambivalent (see teeter on the brink of)

* frenzy - frenetic - impetuous - rabid - frantically
munificent - largesse - lavish?
fractious - bilious - petulant - querulous - cranky
fastidious - squeamish - nitpicky - cantankerous - meticulous - see minute - thorough - diligent - assiduous - intently/intent
(see bright above)

* Enemy:
    * bellicose - pugnacious - hostile - belligerent - slugfest - feuding - carnage - gory - pyrrhic -
      virulent - brawl - skirmish - bloodbath - (see argue) - squabble - scuffle - altercation - set-to
    * adversary
    * antagonist
    * belligerent
    * combatant
    * foe
    * mercenary
    * factuality
    * authenticity
    * certitude

* inveterate - avid ?
* ardour - fervid - vehemently - fervent - fervour - fiery - aflame - zeal - see want
* pompous - turgid - highfalutin - florid - see mealy-mouthed
* salacious - whoorish - meretricious - sultry - minx - profligate - turpitude - lewd(-ness) - floosie - harlot - lewdness
* compassion - lenity - benevolence
* сupidity
* (see calm)
* cordially


* rotten apple
* loose cannon
* couch potato
* wet blanket
* big cheese
* tough cookie
* yes-man
* whizzkid
* busybody
* chatterbox
* dark horse
* old hand
* set in her ways
* black sheep



### Behaviour

* comportment - aplomb - mien - conduct - demeanor - carriage
* meekly (see obsequiously)
* defamatory/defame - denigrate - malign - truckle - aspersion - libel - cast aspersion
* succumb - acquiesce - assent - avow - consent - concur - cede
* infamy - nefarious
* disdain - opprobrium - malevolent - schadenfreude - disparage - insolence - contemptuous - condescendingly -
  hubristic - scorn - conceited - bumptious - look down on
* snappishly - capricious - shenanigans
* imperious - omnipotent
* (see obsequiously)
* (see contrite)



### Church

* absolution - shrive - penance - penitent - repentant - clergyman - sanctuary - contrite - shrine - consecrated - tabernacle - solitudinarian (see secluded)
* sepulchre - graveyard - cemetery
* creed - faith
* ecclesiastic



### Colours

* smaragdine
* cerulean
* chatoyant
* carnation
* crimson
* mahogany
* sallow
* flaxen-haired
* florid
* scarlet
* navy
* fair-haired
* flaxen-haired
* hectic



### Family - Wife - Husband
* connubial
* uxorious
* conjugal
* misogynistic
* trothplight
* matrimony
* paternal
* gravid
* betrothal
* progeny - offspring - kith and kin - crony
* paramour - mistress
* decathect
* kin
* wedlock / wed / newlywed
* celibate
* antecedents - ant posterity



### Animals
* fox - vixen - vulpine
* cervine
* feline


### Other 2
* pithy - jejune - bland
* disclaim - dismiss - disregard - neglect - discount



### Job
* menial
* hireling
* peons



### Court / Crime / Law
* litigation
* imputation
* subpoena
* incarceration
* internment
* injunction
* complicity
* Illicit
* petit theft - minor crime
* convicted
* acquitted
* conman
* arson
* burglary
* domestic abuse
* embezzlement
* felony
* forgery
* larceny
* manslaughter
* moral turpitude
* murder
* robbery
* stalking
* treason
* apostate
* traitor
* trespass - interloper
* receiving
* shenanigans



### House, live

* housing
* habitat
* shack
* slum
* abode - sojourn - domicile - aerie - lodging - reside
* premises
* boroughs
* shack



### Predictions
* with all likelihood
* is likely to - A global disaster may well  have happened
* become a thing of the past
* the signs are
* to be...
    * due to + inf
    * bound to
    * destined to
    * on the verge of
    * teeter on the brink of
    * on the point of
    * about to
    * sure to: 
    * set to:
* the days of ... may be over
* prognosticate/prognosticator - foretell - forebode - foreshadow - herald - predict - betoken - presage - seer - clairvoyant - bespeak
* see impending
* 15 Terms for Those Who Tell the Future
    * augur
    * Cassandra
    * crystal gazer
    * doomsayer
    * fortune-teller
    * futurist
    * Jeremiah
    * oracle
    * palm reader/palmist
    * prophesier
    * prophet
    * sibyl
    * soothsayer


### Estimates

* just under
* in the region of
* upwards of
* in the vicinity of



### would-be - prospective - something-to-be

* Before they joined the course, the would-be spies were allowed to tell only...
* Tom meets his wife-to-be when he ...
* for prospective gun owners


### Describing graphs
* has increased dramatically
* risen sharply
* dropped alarmingly
* There has been a surge / a drop / an increase
* ... have plummeted / soared / grown
* There has been a relative surge / decline / drop
* Number have rocketed / exploded / collapsed
* There has been a steady / sharp / gradual increase


### Truth / lie / myths
* see true, see right
* conventional wisdom
* avowed - well-known - well-established
* disprove a myth / debunk a myth
* uncover the truth
* a commonly held perception / long-held perception
* fallacy - misconception - aberrant/aberration (?) - fallibility - see fallacious
* telltale
* He let it slip that they were planning to get married.
* Lynn gave the game away by laughing when Kim walked in
* Inadvertently perhaps, the BiE report lets the cat out of the bag.
* spill the beans
* bewray
* keep/stay schtum
* come clean
* set the record straight
* make a clean breast of it/things - admit
* abrogate - abjure - abolish - abdicate - rescind - recant - renounce - renege - change your mind - lie - perjure - repudiate
* confabulate
* canard - deceit - fable - falsehood - falsity - mendacity - misstatement - perjury
* ambiguity - equivocation (equivocal) - mealy-mouthed - prevarication - fudge



### Relaxing

* let your hair down
* put my feet up
* have a breather
* respite - hiatus - repose



### Opinions

* in my experience - in my opinion - from what I can gather - as far as I am concerned - to my knowledge
* if you want my honest opinion
* have an axe to grind
* impartial
* It if was up to me
* I'd sooner
* I'd just as soon ... as ...
* If I ever found myself in ...
* This would be by far the best option
* Without a shadow of a doubt, I'd ...
* Given the choice, ...
* No way would I ...



### Ambitions & Success

* to have a burning desire to
* set her heart on becoming
* hog the limelight
* hit the big time
* to have a stroke of luck
* a one-hit wonder
* paid off
* to be a legend in her lifetime
* crave fame and fortune
* hander after fame
* be in the spotlight
* to be held in high esteem
* to be renowned for
* become an overnight success
* shoot to fame / shoot to stardom
* to be set on becoming
* see aspire



### Comparative

Big difference:

* considerably
* infinitely
* decidedly
* significantly
* nowhere near: She is nowhere near as good as me at chess.
* nothing like: He is nothing like as obstinate as his brother.
* every bit as

Small difference:

* marginally





### Other Phrases

* **all but** - almost completely
* **it is time, it is high time** she left her boyfriend, it is about time you found a job. Also see what if, suppose, would rather, would sooner, as if, as though.
* Why not **give the world a piece of your mind**?
* ...and **never drew rein until**..., have/keep your beady eye(s) on somebody/something - kept an eye?
* He **bid her adieu** - said goodbye
* **fair-haired boy, blue-eyed boy** - the man or boy in a group who is most liked and approved of by someone in authority
* **not by any manner of means** - not at all
* **for two pins I’d** - old-fashioned used to say that you would like to do something to someone because they have annoyed you


### Clothes
* cravat
* turtleneck
* tunic
* neckcloth
* waistcoat
* frock coat
* bowler hat
* broadcloth



### Facto expressions
* de facto
* de jure
* ipso facto
* ex post facto



### Pleasant
* For food: dainty, tasty, scrumptious, savoury
* For sound: dulcet



### Money

* send money - remit
* peculate - spendthrift



### Other Synonyms

* multitudinous - plenitude - fulsome - effusive - prodigious - affluence (opulent?) - profuse - abundant - inordinate - undue - rife - overabundance, overflow - overmuch - over-plus - superfluity - surfeit - overkill - ample - surplus - excess - welter - a lot of - unconscionable - many - much - very - sore - exuberant - bristle
* calamitous - baleful - noxious - pernicious - deleterious - pestiferous
* stilted - mannered - histrionic - recondite - abstruse - sonorus - sesquipedalian - sibylline
* incendiary - igneous (?) - irascible
* ruminative - contemplative
* ubiquitous - pervasive
* garrulous - glib - voluble - loquacious - gregarious - talkative
* incontrovertible - inviolable - infallible - irrefragable - tenet - precept - premise
* pertinent - appropriate - germane - befit - behove - beseem - felicitous - aptly - expedient - featly - suitable - ant: inappropriate, infelicitous
* commodious - spacious
* succulent - luscious
* juggernaut - sockdolager
* evocative - reminiscent
* auspicious - propitious - conducive
* prolific - fecund
* taciturn - reticent - reverie
* jejune - irksome
* extort - elicit
* benightedness - nescience - illiteracy - gramarye
* kerfuffle - commotion - bustling - fuss - turmoil - tumult - clamour - brisk - mayhem - merrily - rough-and-tumble - hectic - obstreperous - raucous - noisy
* hamper - balk - hinder
* asperity - rigour
* craze - jump on the bandwagon
* vapid - inane
* wane - abate - allay (see calm)
* sumpsimus - iconoclastic - ant: mumpsimus
* nettle - vexing - irritate
* flair - knack
* shun - avoid - eschew
* potent - puissant
* blip - anomaly
* embellish - fallal - fudge the issue - bedeck - adorn - bejewel
* salient - conspicuous - discernable - eminent - stand out - ledge - jut out - prognathous - protrude
* chagrin - doleful - shame - see deplorable
* opulent/opulence - sumptuous - affluent - exuberance
* damndest - utmost
* flaunt - splurge
* inundate - infest - deluge?
* sensitize - innervate
* regurgitate - burp - belch
* surreptitiously - artisanal - furtive? - dissemble - feign - malinger. artisan - craftsman.
* dexterity - legerdemain - sleight - adroit - maladroit (ant) - faculty for - aptitude for - propensity - nimble - agile - ruse - prowess
* intrinsic - extrinsic - inherited - trait - idiosyncrasy - indigenous - sui generis (?) - inalienable - lineament - congenital - inscape (?) - ingrained
* coalesce - cohesive - conflate - amalgamate - confluence - mingle - intermingle - intertwined - interdigitated
* ire - irate
* perpetuate - immortalise - atemporal
* dearth - scarce - meagre - paucity - scant - exiguous
* crevice - fissure
* nepotism - meritocracy - gerontocracy - kakistocracy
* correct - fix - redress - reimburse - reparation - improve - ameliorate - enhance - retaliate - face the music
* satiate - imbue
* digression - divagate - inconsequential - impertinent (?) - amiss
* florid - burgeoning
* circumspect - wary - considerate - discreet - conscientious - courteous - suave
* in bed - abed - ant: astir
* afar - afield
* afire - ablaze
* to be going on - happen - afoot
* askance - askew - oblique - aslant - aslope - athwart
* disparate - motley
* turn into - veer into
* abode - sojourn - domicile - aerie
* perfunctory - smattering - cursory - remiss - superficially - desultory - facile remark - ad hoc
* congregate - convene - muster
* divulge - unsheathe - divestiture
* parsimonious - frugal
* bane - plague
* frustrate - foil - derail - see confused
* show - evince - exhibit
* farewell - goodbye - valedictory - apopemptic
* shatter - smithereens - scrap - piece - sliver
* bequeath - testament
* stifle - trample - quell - subdue - clampdown - subjugate - curb
* moggy - feline
* invigorating - animated - spirited - inviting - lively - racy - vivacious
* tailored - custom - handcrafted - bespoke
* fate - destiny - kismet
* jab - impale
* permeable - pervious - infiltrate - percolate
* giddy - vertigo
* comprehensive - holistically
* doodle - scribble - scrawl
* jumble up - potpourri
* adage - saying - proverb
* miscreant - scoundrel
* dwindle - curtail - decrease - contract - abridge - cut
* bunglesome - cumbersome - burdensome - onerous
* environment - milieu
* rule - decree, edict
* unspoilt - pristine - intact
* worry - fret - fluster - ruffle - upset - see pain (as a verb)
* state - stipulate
* usually - customarily - as per usual
* agreement - covenant
* crowds - throngs
* middle - midst
* heed - take into account
* mysterious - enigmatic
* unfettered - unleash
* shrill - shriek - scrunch
* nurture - foster
* in regard to - in terms of
* embody - epitomise - reify - implement - enshrine - store - keep
* fortuitous - perchance - serendipity - lucky
* desolate - deserted - secluded - incommunicado - recluse - rusticate - rural - destitute/destitution/desolation - poor. lacking - wanting. do not have - be destitute of something
* condolence - commiseratingly / commiserate
* picturesque - scenic - vista
* make up - conjure something up - imagine - concoct
* turn of mind - mindset
* chimerical - impossible - infeasible
* botch - mess up - bungle - fail - debacle - folly - founder - fall short
* impress - dazzle
* a trifle - slightly
* surmounted - above
* indirect - vicarious
* geezer - chap - lad - cove - guy - man - pass (girl)
* tally with - corroborate - match - to be consistent with
* indelible - permanent - constant - indefinite - eternity - infinite
* copy - facsimile
* misty - bleary
* virago - crone
* to be full - gorge yourself (on something)
* unintentional - purposely - unwitting - deliberately - willfully - accidentally - incidentally - by chance - by accident
* incentive / incentivise - stir up - whip - abet - spark off - force - coerce - make - goad - see propel, instigate - 
* deck out - embellish
* adversity - vagary/vagaries - ills - whim
* sinewy - wiry
* inure somebody to something - get used to - endure?
* avert - prevent - ward off - forfend
* debacle - fail - mistake - folly
* basin - sink
* sprang to his feet - stand up
* sling - chuck - throw - fling - hurl
* whither - whence - thither
* rasp - creak - jangle
* paroxysm - effusion
* up to now - hitherto
* violate - infringe
* refrain - abstain - forbear
* "used to" when it is inconvenient - inure to
* droop - sag
* about - apropos of - regarding - concerning
* safe and sound - unscathed - intact
* encumber - impede - burden - make it more difficult
* cull - collate - aggregate - compile
* harsh - inclement
* be up-to-date - keep abreast of something
* wily - cunning
* allows - lends itself to
* do - commit - perpetrate
* have taste - smacks of



### CV buzz words

Why say **led** when you can claim to have spearheaded, propelled, pioneered, orchestrated, officiated,
optimized, instituted, inspired, headed, governed, enacted, directed, crafted, controlled, championed,
built, or supervised.

Why say you **developed** something when you can use cultivated, advanced, evolved, fostered, amplified,
promoted, expanded, actualized, refined, augmented, enriched, extended, magnified, or strengthened.

Why **handle** something when you can address, advance, alter, apply, centralize, compile, conduct,
construct, coordinate, determine, execute, exhibit, formalize, govern, oversee, or establish it.



### Expressions / Phrases

* Here in London we have lots of Government detectives and lots of private ones. When these fellows **are at fault** they come to me,
* I manage to put them **on the right scent**
* They **have their knives into one another too** - personal grudges.
* **with the most minute exactness**
* **Hail a cab**
* **give vent to** something
* **grow up quickly out of necessity**
* **to defeat the ills** brought about by
* “I will now cut one of these pills in two,” said Holmes, and drawing his penknife he **suited the action to the word**.
* **by way of example**
* resulted in an **ingrained sense** of the
* The sun was barely **peeping through** the clouds
* They were buzzards, the vultures of the west, whose coming is the forerunner of death.
* and were surrounded by crowds of the pilgrims — pale-faced meek-looking women, strong laughing children, and anxious earnest-eyed men.
* While our cab had been threading its way through a long succession of dingy streets and dreary by-ways.
* Puerile as such an exercise may seem, it sharpens the faculties.
* **if only because** - Media studies is regarded as a more exciting subject, **if only because** it’s new.
* make a killing - laughing all the way to the bank

