title: Infinitive

# **Infinitive**

## **Functions of the Zero Infinitive**

### The zero infinitive after verbs of perception.

With verbs of perception, the pattern is _verb + object + zero infinitive_:

* He **saw her fall** from the cliff.
* We **heard them close** the door.
* They **saw us walk** toward the lake.
* She **felt the spider crawl up** her leg.

### The zero infinitive after the verbs make and let

Also see Causative

* Her parents **let her stay** out late.
* **Let's go** to the cinema tonight.
* You **made me come** with you.
* Don't **make me study** that boring grammar book!

### The zero infinitive with _why_

The question word _why_ is followed by the zero infinitive when making suggestions:

* **Why wait** until tomorrow?
* **Why not ask** him now?
* **Why leave** before the end of the game?
* **Why walk** when we can go in the car?
* **Why not buy** a new bed?






## **Functions of Infinitive**

### Attribute

The Active Voice:

* The **scientists to solve** this problem work at our institute.
* He was **the first to solve** the problem.

The Passive Voice:

* The **problem to be solved** is very interesting.
* It was the first **problem to be solved**.


### _For_ complex

The Active Voice:

* New conditions are needed **for him to solve** the problem.
* **For a wire to be** a good conductor, it has to be made of low resistance metal.
* **For him to realize** this dependence is rather difficult.
* The tendency was **for the substance to become** ionised.
* He wanted **for me to check** the result.

The Passive Voice:

* **For the problem to be solved** you must join forces.


### Other

* **The phenomenon to be considered later** was discovered in 1923.
* These questions will be discussed **at the conference shortly to open in** Moscow.
* **Newton was the first to discover** the law of gravitation.


### Complex Object

* I would like **the results to be given** in a tabular form.
* He proved his **theory to be correct**.
* We take this **value to be zero**.
* This apparatus **enables accurate measurements to be made**.

### Complex Subject

* This **scientist is known to have developed** a new theory.
* His **theory proved to be correct**.
* **There seems to be nobody** there.
* **There appears to be an excess** of particles.
* Exact **data are unlikely to have been obtained**.
* An **effect known to be due to** the space charge is found by Meyer.
* **Substances, thought to possess** this property are properly investigated.








## **"Tenses" of infinitive** --- [[1](https://test-english.com/explanation/b2/gerunds-infinitives-complex-forms/)]

### Simple Infinitive --- [[1](https://www.ef.com/wwen/english-resources/)], [[2](https://www.engvid.com/active-and-passive-infinitives/)].

Active Voice:

* She plans to invite them.
* Mike is afraid to make mistakes.

Passive Voice.

It is particularly common after auxiliary verbs (_may_, _should_, _could_, etc.) to indicate what is
possible or what is correct. The passive infinitive is formed: _to be + past participle_.

* They **expect to be invited**.
* I am **expecting to be given** a pay-rise next month.
* She is **hoping to be elected** president.
* The carpet **needs to be washed**.
* These doors should be shut at night.
* This window may be opened but that one must stay closed.


### Continuous infinitive --- [[1](https://www.ef.com/wwen/english-resources/)].

The continuous infinitive is used to express a continuing action after a verb or auxiliary which must be
followed by the infinitive. The continuous infinitive is formed: _to be + present participle_.

As with the present infinitive, there are situations where the zero form of the continuous infinitive is
required, so the word _to_ is omitted. This happens after most modal auxiliaries, and in other places where
zero infinitives are used:

* I'd really **like to be swimming** in a nice cool pool right now.
* I **happened to be waiting** for the bus when the accident happened.
* It must be **nice to be going to a** wedding overseas.
* You **must be joking**!
* We **should be hurrying**. We're late! (See Modal Verbs below)
* You'd **better be working on** your report when I get there.


### Perfect Infinitive --- [[1](https://www.ef.com/wwen/english-resources/)], [[2](https://www.engvid.com/active-and-passive-infinitives/)].

Active Voice.

The perfect infinitive is most commonly found in type 3 conditional sentences as part of the conditional
perfect, although it can be used in other places as well. The perfect infinitive is formed: _to have +
past participle_. As with the present infinitive, there are situations where the zero form of the
perfect infinitive is required:

* He **pretended to have seen** the film.
* Before I turn 40, **I want to have written** a book.
* **I would like to have been to the** Taj Mahal when I was in India.
* If I had known you were coming I would have baked a cake. (See Modal Verbs below)
* Someone must have broken the window and climbed in. (See Modal Verbs below)
* That man may have noticed the bank robbers' getaway car. (See Modal Verbs below)

Passive Voice.

* I am **happy to have been invited**.
* I **was on honour to have been chosen for** the award.


### Perfect continuous infinitive --- [[1](https://www.ef.com/wwen/english-resources/)].

The perfect continuous infinitive is used to express a continuing but now completed action after a verb
which must be followed by the infinitive. The perfect infinitive is formed: _to have been +
present participle_. As with the present infinitive, there are situations where the zero form of the
perfect continuous infinitive is required:

* The **woman seemed to have been crying**.
* He **pretended to have been painting** all day.
* I **would have preferred to have been sleeping all** afternoon.
* You must have been waiting for hours! (See Modal Verbs below)
* They might have been talking before you came in. (See Modal Verbs below)
* You should have been studying for your test. (See Modal Verbs below)

