title: something followed by something rules


# **something followed by something rules** --- [[1](https://www.englishpage.com/gerunds/index.htm)]

## **Verbs and phrases followed by gerunds only**

* He **admitted** cheating on the test
* I **anticipated** arriving late.
* I **appreciated** her helping me.
* He **avoided** talking to her.
* He **completed** renovating the house.
* She **considered** moving to New York.
* The lawyer **defended** her making such statements.
* He **delayed** doing his taxes.
* He **denied** committing the crime.
* She **despises** waking up early.
* We **discussed** working at the company.
* She **dislikes** working after 5 PM.
* **Fancy** meeting you here!
* She **finished** writing the letter.
* **go** swimming
* I **don't mind** helping you. / Do you **mind** waiting here for a few minutes.
* We **enjoy** hiking.
* He **imagines** working there one day.
* The job **involves** traveling to Japan once a month.
* She **kept** interrupting me.
* He **mentioned** going to that college.
* She **misses** living near the beach.
* He **postponed** returning to Paris.
* She **practiced** singing the song.
* Tom **recalled** using his credit card at the store.
* He **rejected** working with them.
* She **recollected** living in Kenya.
* Tony **recommended** taking the train.
* He **reported** her stealing the money.
* Nick **resented** Debbie's being there.
* He **resisted** asking for help.
* He **risked** being caught.
* They **suggested** staying at the hotel.
* I **tolerated** her talking.
* I **understand** his quitting.


Also, gerund follows some expressions / phrases:

* I **can't see** paying so much money for a car.
* It is **no use** quarrelling with him.
* It's **no good** thinking that girls in these days are as they used to be.
* There's **no point** in just trying to remake the past.
* He **can't help** talking so loudly.
* It might **be worth** phoning the station to check the time of the train.







## **Gerund after prepositions**
Prepositions are followed by gerunds (for example: _I am looking forward to seeing you_). See them here (Confusing prepositions).






## **Verbs followed by gerunds or infinitives (slightly different meaning)**

### Verbs of the senses: _feel_, _see_, _hear_, _watch someone_
* I **heard him tell** you about the letter. (you see or hear the whole action)
* I **saw her drinking** a coffee in the bar. (you only see or hear part of the action)

### Other verbs/situations
Using a gerund suggests that you are referring to **real activities or experiences (and as they are real ---
they are in the past / have taken place)**. Using an infinitive suggests that you are talking about **potential
or possible activities or experiences (and as they are potential --- they are in the future / have not taken place)**.

* The British reporter **likes living** in New York (He lives in New York and he likes what he experiences there)
* The British reporter **likes to live** in New York whenever he works in the United States. (He likes the option or possibility of living in New York when he works in the United States)
* I **like speaking** French because it's such a beautiful language. (I like the experience of speaking French, and the way it makes me feel when I speak the language)
* I **like to speak** French when I'm in France. (I prefer the option of speaking French when I am in France)
* I **denied stealing**. (I deny having stolen anything before.)
* I **denied to steal**. (Someone offered me to steal something in the future and I refused. So no actual stealing was made.)


Such verbs below as _forget_, _remember_, _stop_ and probably _mean_ could be described with the logic above.







## **Verbs followed by gerunds or infinitives (different meaning)**

### forget
When _forget_ is used with a gerund, it means to forget that you have done something. The sentence below
means that she read the book when she was a kid, and that she has forgotten that fact:

* She forgot reading the book when she was a kid.

When _forget_ is used with an infinitive, it means to forget that you need to do something. The sentence
below means that she forgot that she needed to pay the rent:

* She forgot to pay the rent this month.


### remember
When _remember_ is used with a gerund, it means to remember that you have done something. The sentence
below means that I mentioned the meeting, and that I remember the fact that I did that:

* I remember mentioning the meeting yesterday.

When _remember_ is used with an infinitive, it means to remember that you need to do something. The
sentence below means that he remembered that he needed to turn the lights off:

* He remembered to turn off the lights before he left.


##### stop
_Stop_ is normally used with a gerund:

* He stopped smoking for health reasons.

When stop is used with an infinitive, the infinitive takes on the meaning of in order to. In the sentence
below, he stopped in order to rest for a few minutes:

* He stopped to rest for a few minutes.


### try
tl;dr:

* _try to_: you want to accomplish it but it is so difficult that it is 90% that you either have fail it or will fail in the future.
* _try + Ving_: a lot of easy experimenting to see if one of them give desired result.


_Try + gerund_ means to try or to experiment with different methods to see if something works.

This is when you do something as an experiment. The thing you do is not difficult, but you want to see if
doing it will have the result that you want:

* She can't find a job. She tried looking in the paper, but there was nothing. She tried asking friends and family, but nobody knew of anything. She also tried going to shop, but nobody was hiring.

_Try + gerund_ is often used when you experiment with something, but you do not really like it or want to do it again:

* She tried eating the snake soup, but she didn't like it.

When you _try to do_ something, you want to do it, but you do not succeed in actually doing it.

This is when the thing you do itself is difficult. In the present tense or future tense, this means you might
not succeed in doing it. In the past tense, it means that you made an effort to do the thing, but you did not succeed.

* She tried to climb the tree, but she couldn't even get off the ground. (an infinitive is used because she cannot successfully climb the tree)

An infinitive is also used if you are asking someone to try something they may or may not be able to accomplish:

* Try not to wake the baby when you get up tomorrow at 5 AM.


### go on
_go on Ving_: to continue with the same thing:

* Go on reading the article. (Continue reading the article.)

_go on to_: to change the activity:

* Whichever page you're on, go on to read the next chapter. (Continue with the next chapter.)


### mean
_mean_ with the gerund means involve:

* You can buy a new car, but it means spending a lot of money.
* If you want to win, it will mean working hard.

_mean_ with the infinitive shows intention:

* He means to leave his job next month
* I didn't mean to make you angry.


### need
When _need_ is used with a gerund, it takes on a passive meaning. The sentence below means the house needs to be cleaned:

* The house needs cleaning.

Need is usually used with an infinitive or an object + an infinitive:

* He needs to call his boss.
* He needs him to call his boss.


### start (used with both)
When _start_ is used in non-continuous tenses, you can either use a gerund or an infinitive:

* Marge started talking really fast.
* Marge started to talk really fast.

When _start_ is used in continuous tenses, an infinitive is used:

* Marge is starting to talk really fast.

In other situations, an infinitive means that you did not complete or continue an action:

* I started to learn Russian, but it was so much work that I finally quit the class.


### begin (used with both)
When _begin_ is used in non-continuous tenses, you can either use a gerund or an infinitive:

* She began singing.
* She began to sing.

When begin is used in continuous tenses, an infinitive is used:

* She is beginning to sing.


### dread (usually used with  a gerund)
Usually _dread_ is followed by a gerund:

* She dreaded taking the test.

Dread is sometimes used with infinitives such as think or consider. In the sentence below, dreaded to think means did not want to think:

* He dreaded to think of the consequences of his actions.


### keep (usually with a gerund)
_Keep_ is normally used with a gerund to mean that you continue doing an action.

* She kept talking.

_Keep_ can also be used with an object followed by an infinitive, but then the infinitive takes on the
meaning of in order to... . In the sentence below, the attackers kept hostages in order to prevent the police from entering:

* The attackers kept hostages to prevent the police from entering.


### regret (usually used with a gerund)
_Regret_ is normally used with a gerund:

* I regretted being late to the interview.

_Regret_ is sometimes used with infinitives such as to inform. In the sentence below, _We regret to inform you_
means We wish we did not have to tell you (bad news):

* We regret to inform you that your position at the company is being eliminated.




## **Verbs followed by gerunds or nouns + infinitives**

* I **advised seeing** a doctor. I **advised them to see** a doctor.
* Ireland doesn't **allow smoking** in bars. Ireland doesn't **allow people to smoke** in bars.
* He **encourages eating** healthy foods. He **encourages his patients to eat** healthy foods.
* California doesn't **permit fishing** without a fishing license. California doesn't **permit people to fish** without a fishing license.
* The certificate **requires completing** two courses. The certificate **requires students to complete** two courses.
* They **urge recycling** bottles and paper. They **urge citizens to recycle** bottles and paper.

