title: Other

# **Other**

## **Pronunciation**

[British vs american accents](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wDVOOo7R31c).

### Silent letters

[[1](https://www.engvid.com/speaking-english-advanced-pronunciation/)], [[2](https://www.dailywritingtips.com/)]

* i**r**on
* s**w**ord
* recei**p**t
* su**b**tle
* bom**b** [bɔm]
* clim**b** [klaɪm]
* com**b** [kəum]
* dum**b** [dʌm]
* jam**b** [ʤæm]
* lam**b** [læm]
* plum**b** [plʌm]
* tom**b** [tuːm]
* wom**b** [wuːm]
* crum**b** [krʌm]
* lim**b** [lɪm]
* num**b** [nʌm]
* thum**b** [θʌm]




## **Uncountable nouns** --- [[1]](https://learnenglish.britishcouncil.org/grammar/english-grammar-reference/uncount-nouns)
Almost all uncountable nouns have singular form:

* advice, news, money and many more...

These nouns are not used with _a_/_an_ or numbers and are not used in the plural:

* Here **is** the latest **news**.
* **Money isn't** everything.

But there are also uncountable nouns which are usually found only in the plural:

* stairs, clothes, glasses, toiletries, outskirts, remains, shorts, pants, pyjamas, binoculars, 
  scissors, groceries, goods, customs, thanks, regards, police

Examples:

* **The police are** searching for a white man in his twenties.
* All my **clothes are** packed and I’m ready for my trip.




## **I wish I were, If I was / If I were** --- [[1](https://www.dailywritingtips.com/i-wish-i-were/)]
_If I was_/_if he was_/_if she was_ --- these forms are called for when the statement refers to a state of
being that existed, or could have existed in actual time:

* **If he was ill**, no wonder he left the oysters untouched.
* **If I was unkind** to you in those days, please forgive me.
* **If she was lost** in the woods, no one can blame her for being late.

Sometimes the speaker must decide according to intended meaning:

* **If she were sensible**, she’d order a background check on him. (I know her and she’s not sensible)
* **If she was sensible**, she’d order a background check on him. (I don’t know if she’s sensible or not. She may be)

Regrets: Use _if only + would or wish + would_ to show we are annoyed by something now:

* If only you would be more sensible.
* I wish you would be quiet.




## **“Would” in the past** --- [[1](https://www.engvid.com/english-grammar-would-in-the-past/)]
_Would_ = _used to_. But _would_ is used only for actions, not states.

* When I was on the school soccer team, **I would score** at least one goal per game.




## **The Subjunctive** --- [[1](https://www.engvid.com/english-grammar-subjunctive/)]
* It is important {>>that<<} **he** ~~comes~~ **come** on time. Not: "he comes".
* I propose {>>that<<} **we** ~~do~~ **not go** there. Not: "we do not go".

Other verbs are: _advice_, _ask_, _command_, _demand_, _desire_, _insist_, _propose_, _recommend_,
_request_, _suggest_, _urge_.




## **Passive verbs with ‘that’ clauses** --- “_It is thought that..._” --- [[1](https://www.engvid.com/writing-passive-verbs-that-clauses/)]
* It was claimed by Copernicus that we lived in a heliocentric universe.
* It is thought that Michael Jordan was the best basketball player.
* It is theorised that aliens built the pyramids.

Allege, assume, believe, claim, fear, feel, hold, postulate, predict, say, theorise, think.

... and without that clause:

* She was thought to be the best swimmer in the city.
* Hi is known to have been present during the crimes.



When a _that_-clause begins _that there..._, we can make a corresponding passive form there passive verb _to be_ / _to have been_:

* It is thought that there are too many obstacles to peace.
* There are thought to be too many obstacles to peace.




## **Passive Voice** (with _get_) --- [[1](https://www.grammaring.com/the-passive-with-get)]
_get_ is often used instead of be in the passive voice in informal spoken English to refer to an action
that happens by accident or unexpectedly:

* They will get married tomorrow. (They changed from single to married)
* Jerry got fired because he was always late for work.

_get_ expresses action and change and is only used with action verbs, not state verbs:

* Jerry got fired because he was always late for work. (fire is an action verb)
* Nothing is known about the thief (Wrong: ~~Nothing gets known about the thief~~ _know_ is a state verb)

As _get_ in the passive voice expresses action, it makes it possible to differentiate between an action and
a state if it is not otherwise clear:

* The living room window was broken. (state or action)
* The living room window got broken. (action)

Also see "Grammar: Causative".

Idiomatic expressions with the _get_ passive:

* get dressed
* get washed
* get engaged
* get married
* get divorced
* get lost
* get mixed up
* get started

Prepositions in the passive voice:

* The doctor was sent **for**.
* The film was much spoken **about**.
* The train is acted **upon** by several forces.
* These data are often referred **to**.




## **Present perfect vs Past Simple**
Several complicated examples:

* I have not seen you for a long time. Where have you been?
* Dear Mum and Dad, Sorry I have not written in a while, but things are crazy here. I can't believe it was
  six month ago that I left and that we have not seen each other for that long.




## **Present Simple vs Present Continuous for habits**
In general, Present Continuous [is used](https://ell.stackexchange.com/questions/162823/present-continuous-for-a-new-habit) when something:

1. is happening now
2. differs from what is expected or usual
    * especially if it is disliked by the speaker or evokes ambivalent feelings.

However, both Present Simple as well as Present Continuous [are also used to describe habits](https://www.perfect-english-grammar.com/present-simple-or-present-continuous.html).
It looks like the difference can be described wit the aforementioned criterion: something differs from what
is expected or is usual. It must be different across at least one dimension: time, population, space and so on...:

* _At the first signs of trouble, animals always move to higher ground_.
  All animals do it. They do it all the time. No blips, no unusual activity => Present Simple.
* _The boss is always telling us to work hard, but she does nothing_. Only that particular boss (individual)
  is saying it. There is a blip in population dimension => Present Continuous.
  Moreover, with all likelihood it annoys the speaker.
* _People in the book business are always saying how difficult it is to think of a great title_.
  Only people in the book business are saying it. There is a blip in population dimension => Present Continuous.
* _I drink coffee every morning_. No blips, it happens all the time. Permanent habit.
* _I am drinking too much coffee these days because I'm so busy at work_. There is a blip in the time
  dimension. I have started to drink more coffee recently. It is a new habit.
* _Julie lives in London_. Permanent situation. No blips in time => Present Simple.
* _Julie is living in Paris for a few months (usually she lives in London)_. There is a blip in
  time => Present Continuous.




## **_to_ / _in order to_ / _so as to_** --- [[1](https://www.tolearnenglish.com/exercises/exercise-english-2/exercise-english-85663.php)], [[2](https://www.lexico.com/definition/so_as_to_do_something)], [[3](https://www.bbc.co.uk/worldservice/learningenglish/grammar/learnit/learnitv146.shtml)]
We use to to say why we do something:

* I'm going to Ireland **to** visit my family.

We can also use _in order to_ or _so as to_. _in order to_ and _so as to_ are more common before stative
verbs like: _be_, _have_, _know_, _appear_, _seem_, _understand_, etc:

* She left work early in order to be at home with the children.
* I'm going to Ireland in order to visit my family.
* I went to the post office so as to buy some stamps.

Before a negative infinitive, we normally use _so as_ or _in order_:

* I am leaving now **so as not to be** late. (not: ~~I am leaving now not to be late~~)




## **How to use _so_ & _so that_** --- [[1](https://www.engvid.com/english-grammar-so-that/)]
* Bill worked hard, **so** he was promoted.
* Bill worked hard **so that** he would be promoted.
* Bill worked **so hard that** he had to be promoted.
* Jill is smart, **so** all the boys like her.
* Jill studies regularly **so that** she can beat the boys.
* Jill is **so smart that** all the boys are afraid of her.




## **That & Which** --- [[1](https://www.engvid.com/that-which/)]
In defining relative clauses _that_ and _which_ are interchangeable. Whereas, you must use _which_ in non-defining ones.

* The movie that/which we saw last weekend was really good.
* Harry Potter, which I finished last week, was an excellent book.
* Toronto, which is heavily populated, is a multicultural city.




## **Comparing with _like_ & _as_** --- [[1](https://www.engvid.com/english-grammar-comparing-with-like-as/)]

_Like + noun_, _As + clause_:

* He looks **like a Martian**.
* He speaks **like a preacher**.
* He speaks **as a preaches does**.
* She treats me **like a dog**.
* A: "I Like it". B: "**As do I**". or B: "So do I".
* She is shopping **as if there were** no tomorrow.

Do not mix up with:

* As your boss, I forbid you from using FB at work.





## **Adjective Clauses + Quantifiers** --- [[1](https://www.engvid.com/adjective-clauses-quantifiers/)]
Such clauses are always non-defining ones, and therefore should be in commas.

* Chris has two sisters. Both of them smoke.
* Chris has two sisters, both of whom smoke.
* Nick has two phones. One of them is broken.
* Nick has two phones, one of which is broken.
* Tom is a writer. All of his books are popular.
* Tom is a writer, all of whose books are popular.




## **didn't need to ask or needn't have asked**
* We did not need to ask for directions. We had a map.
* We need not have asked for direction. We asked for directions, but it was unnecessary as we found a map, or directions were misleading.




## **whether vs if** --- [[1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Klnroe1UBRs&ab_channel=Adam%E2%80%99sEnglishLessons%C2%B7engVid)]
_whether_ is always about two (often opposite) choices / options. _if_ is not limited to two.

They can mean the same thing:

* Do you know if/whether Dan is coming?
* I do not know if/whether the exam is on Friday or Saturday.

But they can also mean different things:

* Let me know if you are coming. (if you are coming (and only if) then let me know about it).
* Let me know whether you are coming (or not). (if you are coming - let me know. If are not coming - let me know as well).

In the latter example whether has meaning of "regardless".  More examples of this meaning:

* I will come over if you want me to. (If you want, I will come. If you do not want, I will not come.)
* I will come over whether you like it or not. (If you like it, I will come. If you do not like it, I will come.)





## **Had better** --- [[1](https://www.englishpage.com/modals/hadbetter.html)]
todo




## **Conditional clauses**
_But for_, _if it were not for_, _were it not for_, _if it had not been for_, _had it not been for_:

* But for hist illness he would (could, might) help us now.
* But for his illness he would (could, might) have helped us yesterday.
* If it were not for his sense of humour, his life would be awful.
* Were it not for his sense of humour , his life would be awful.
* But for his illness he would have come yesterday.
* If it had not been for his illness he would have come yesterday.
* Had it not been for his illness he would have come yesterday.

### Murphy Unit 83. _if_:

We use _if it were not for + noun phrase_ to say that one situation is dependent on another situation or
on a person. When we talk about the past we can also use if it had not been for + noun phrase:

* If it were not for Nina, the conference would not be going ahead.
* If it had not been for Dad, I would not have gone to college.

In formal language we can also use _were it not for..._ and _had it not been for..._:

* Were it not for Nina ...
* Had it not been for Dad ...

We can use _but for + noun_ with a similar meaning, particularly in formal contexts:

* The village school would have been closed years ago but for the determination of teachers and parents to keep it open.

### Future

* Should he be here tomorrow, he will help us.
* Should he see us, he would help us.
* If he should come, I would speak to him.
* Should he come, I would speak to him.
* If he were to come, I would speak to him.
* Were he to come, I would speak to him.
* If he should come, I shall speak to him.
* If he should come, ask him to wait.
* Should the speed drop, there will be a rapid increase in torque.





## **Emphasis**
_it is ... that ..._:

* It is this device that is used in the tests.
* It is due to the inadequate equipment - that they failed to complete the experiment.
* It was Newton who discovered this law.

_it was not until ... that ..._:

* It was not until 1936 that physicists constructed a theory accounting for the structure of the nucleus.
* It was not until Roentgen discovered X-rays that scientists began to take interest in this subject.



## **_would rather_, _would sooner_, _would just as soon_** --- [[1](https://dictionary.cambridge.org/grammar/british-grammar/would-rather-would-sooner)]

We use _would rather_ or _’d rather_ to talk about preferring one thing to another. _Would rather_ has
two different constructions:


### Same subject

Future and present situations:

* We’d rather go on Monday.
* More than half the people questioned would rather have a shorter summer break and more holidays at other times.
* I’d rather not fly. I hate planes.

Past situations: we use _would rather + have + V3_ form:

* She would rather have spent the money on a holiday. (The money wasn’t spent on a holiday.)
* I’d rather have seen it at the cinema than on DVD. (I saw the film on DVD.)


### Different subjects

Future and present situations: we often use the past simple:

* I would rather they did something about it instead of just talking about it.
* Would you rather I wasn’t honest with you?

Past situations: we use the past perfect:

* I’d rather you hadn’t rung me at work.


### Much rather

We can use _much_ with _would rather_ to make the preference stronger. In speaking, we stress _much_:

* I’d much rather make a phone call than send an email.
* She’d much rather they didn’t know about what had happened.


### Would sooner, would just as soon

We use the phrases _would sooner_ and _would just as soon_ as well. They mean approximately the same as _would rather_:

* I don’t really want to go back to France again this year. I’d sooner go to Spain.
* Thanks for the invitation, but, if you don’t mind, we’d just as soon stay at home and watch it all on TV.







## **Clauses of purpose**
_so that_, _in order_, _that_, _lest_.

* Put down my address **so that you should (may)** write me a letter.
* He put down my address **so that he might** write me a letter.
* He put down my address **lest he should forget** it.






## **Noun Clause**
* Paul is not what is generally considered handsome.
* I am unsure if he is coming.
* It is more a question of whom she said it to than why she said it.
* That she might be right is what frightens me.
* How you go about doing your work should not affect when you get it done.

Conjunctions: _that_, **_which_**, **_who_**, _whom_, _whose_, **_what_**, _if_, _whether_, _when_,
_where_, _how_, _why_, **_whoever_**, _whenever_, **_whatever_**, **_whichever_**.

The conjunctions in bold could be subjects.





## **Cleft sentences & clauses**
Examples:

* **It** is Mary **that** John loves.
* What happened was (that) he dropped the vase.
* **It** was Karin who left her bah on the train.
* It was her bag **that** ~~what~~ Karin left on the train.




### First part of the sentence

1. The verb must agree **with the subject** of the cleft-clause (_it_ or _what_) no matter what you are
talking about (object is); and
2. the subject is _it_ or _what_ even if you are talking about people:

* Focusing with _it_:
    * **It** ~~this~~ is Mary that John loves.
    * **It was a colleague** of Anne who eventually put the pieces together.
    * **It was** ~~were~~ **my parents** I had to thank for this.
    * **It is** ~~those are~~ **the elections** that have ~~has~~ given the people the opportunity to...
    * Lea bought the car from Olav. No, **it was Olav** that bought the car from Lea.
    * I do not mind her criticising me, but **it is how she does it** that I object to.
    * **It was to show how much I cared for her** that I bought her the necklace.
* Focusing with _what_:
    * **What is** ~~are~~ really annoying are the arguments.

In other words, it is always _is_ or _was_, not _were_/_are_.



### Second part of the sentence

Continue the sentence with _that_ or _who_:

* It was only when he failed to arrive at work **that** ~~when~~ the alarm was raised.
* It was only yesterday **that** ~~when~~ I discovered the documents were missing.
* It was in Paris **that** ~~where~~ they first met.
* It is Mary **that** ~~whom~~ John loves.
* It was her bag **that** ~~which/what~~ Karin left on the train.
* It was heavy snow **that** ~~what~~ caused disruption to the airport.
* It is because you have such a good sense of humour **that** ~~why~~ I enjoy your company.
* It was Karin **who** left her bag on the train.

... or without anything, in which case the following verb must agree with what you are talking about
(plural things or singular things: _What is needed **are resources**_):

* It was my **parents I had** to thank for this.
* What is really **annoying are the arguments**.
* What is needed **are additional resources**.
* What happened **was {>>that<<}** he dropped the vase.
* What happened **was {>>that<<} hundreds** of students marched to protest against the new laws.
* What caused disruption to the **airport was** the heavy snow.


### From Murphy Unit 98

To focus attention on an action performed by someone, we use a sentence with _what + subj + do + be + to-inf_
clause (we cannot use an it-clause to do this):

* Luis lost his job and was short of money, so **what he did was {>>to<<} sell** his flat and move in with his brother.
* **The reason** hundreds of students marched through the city centre **was to protest** against the new laws.
* What I want **to do is persuade** them to come with us.
* What Jane **did was invest** well.
* What elections **have done is give** this people the opportunity to decide...



The aforementioned pattern is only usually used with _what_-clauses. Instead of placing other _wh_-clauses
beginning _how_, _when_, _where_, _who_, _why_ at the beginning of the sentence we prefer to use a noun
which has a meaning related to the _wh_-word (e.g. _reason_ rather than _why_; _place_ rather than _where_)
followed by a _that-_ or _wh_-clause:

* **The only reason** (why/**that**) I left the party early was that I was feeling unwell.
* **The place** (where/**that**) you should play football is the playground, not the classroom.
* **Somebody** (who/**that**) I enjoy reading is Peter Carey.
* **The time** (when/**that**) I work best is early morning.





## **Concession Clauses**
* **Difficult though it may be** for students, in the future many school and university subjects are likely ...
* **Whilst** people continue to use English to communicate on the Internet, the language itself will ...
* I really want the car, **however much it costs**.
* **However you look at it**, technology is changing education.
* **Much as we appreciate** your efforts, sadly we won't be able to use the report.
* **Hard as we tried**, we failed to get hold of anybody.
* **Difficult though it was**, we eventually secured the premises.

...and other starting with _despite_, _in spite of_, _whichever_, _though_, _although_, _while_.






## **Participle Clauses** --- [[1](https://www.perfect-english-grammar.com/participle-clauses.html)]
We can use participle clauses after a noun in the same way as relative clauses. This gives more information about the noun.

### A present participle (Ving)...

...can be used in the same way as an active relative clause:

* The man **driving the car** is a friend of mine. (The man who is driving the car is a friend of mine).
* Lorries **coming over the bridge** have to be careful of the wind. (Lorries that come over the bridge have to be careful of the wind).
* Who was the girl **wearing the red dress**? (Who was the girl who was wearing the red dress?).
* Students **handing in their essays late** will lose ten marks. (Students who hand in their essays late will lose ten marks).

### (gerund-participial clause?) Being + V3(past participle)...

...can be used in the same way as a continuous passive relative clause:

* The poem **being read** by the actor was written by my brother. (The poem that is being read by the actor was written by my brother).
* The strawberries **being eaten** at the wedding were grown in Scotland. (The strawberries that are being eaten at the wedding ).

### A past participle (V3)...

...can be used in the same way as a simple passive relative clause:

* We read the email **sent by the manager**. (We read the email that had been sent by the manager).
* This vase, **made in China** in the 14th century, is very valuable. (This vase, which was made in China in the 14th century, is very valuable).
* She only eats cakes **made by her mother**. (She only eats cakes that are made by her mother).





## **Causative** --- [[1](https://www.engvid.com/english-grammar-causative/)], [[2](https://sprdk.blogspot.com/2011/05/causative-form-active-and-passive.html)], [[3](https://www.engvid.com/english-grammar-passive-causative/)], [[4](https://www.perfect-english-grammar.com/causatives-have-get.html)], [[5](https://www.englishpedia.net/my-grammar/intermediate/causative/make-verb-as-causative.html)].

We use a causative verb when we want to talk about something that someone else did for us or for another
person. It means that the subject caused the action to happen, but didn't do it themselves. Maybe they
paid, or asked, or persuaded the other person to do it.

### Active Causative

**Subject** (_I_/_you_/...) + **CV** (_have_, _make_, _let_, _get to_) + **agent** + **verb**.

Examples:

* She **lets me borrow** her book.
* My **mother made me do** my homework.
* I will **have someone cut** my hair.
* My English **teacher has me do** the homework in a week.
* My friends **get me to take** the test.

Differences between CVs (causative verbs) are:

* _Let_ is used when we **allow/give permissions** someone to do something.
* _Make_ is used when we want to **force someone** to do something.
* _Have_ is used when we want to give someone the **responsibility** to do something. When you commision/pay somebody.
* _Get_ is used when we want to **convince/persuade** to do something or to trick someone into doing something.

### Passive Causative

##### _have_ & _get_ verbs:

**Subject** + **CV** (_have_/_get_) + **object** + **V3**

* My hair is too long. You should **get it cut**.
* Yesterday my car broke down. I **had it fixed** by a mechanic.
* My teeth hurt! "You should **have them looked at**.

If instead of object you want to use a person, construction will look like:

* **have** + **person** + **infinitive**:
    * I **had the electrician look** at my broken light.
    * The doctor **will have the nurse call** the patients.
    * The teacher **had the students write** the answers on the whiteboard.
* **get** + **person** + **to** + **infinitive**:
    * She **gets her son to do** his homework by promising him ice cream when he's finished.
    * I **got the cleaner to clean** under the cupboards.

##### make verb

**Subject** + **was**/**were** + **made** + **to** + **V1**

* **I was made to cry** a lot by the film.   (The film made me cry a lot.)
* **Tom was made to laugh** a lot by my son.  (My son made Tom laugh a lot.)
* **The soldiers were made to wait** in the garden.
* A professional **player would be made to shudder** by these odds. (These odds would make a professional player shudder.)


Some verbs (that are followed by **object** + **bare-inf** in the active) are followed by a **to-inf** in
the passive (like _make_): _feel_, _hear_, _help_, _observe_, _see_.



### passive causative + gerund --- [[1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GzEHgVbhdio&ab_channel=BusinessEnglish-LearnwithBusinessEnglishPod)]
Situation: _I enjoy talking during movie_.

Active:

* When I talk, my friend makes me shut up.
* I am accustomed to talking.

Passive:

* I am **made to shut up**.
* I am not accustomed to being **made to shut up**.







## **Inversions** --- [[1](https://www.engvid.com/english-grammar-inversion/)], [[2](https://www.learn-english-today.com/lessons/lesson_contents/verbs/inversion.html)], [[3](https://www.perfect-english-grammar.com/inversion.html)], Murphy Unit 99.

### After negative adverb (phrase) at the beginning of the sentence.

* **Hardly** had I got into bed when the telephone rang.
* **Never** had she seen such a beautiful sight before.
* **Never before** did they use an alternative method.
* **Seldom** do we see such an amazing display of dance.
* **Rarely** will you hear such beautiful music.
* **Only then** did I understand why the tragedy had happened.
* **Only now** would she...
* At first there was silence. **Then came** a voice that I knew. (Unit 76)
* **Not only** does he love chocolate and sweets but he also smokes.
* **No sooner** had we arrived home than the police rang the doorbell.
* **Scarcely** had I got off the bus when it crashed into the back of a car.
* **Only later** did she really think about the situation.
* **Nowhere** have I ever had such bad service.
* **Little** did he know!
* **Only in this way** could John earn enough money to survive.
* **In no way** do I agree with what you're saying.
* **On no account** should you do anything without asking me first.
* **Under no circumstances** can we accept credit cards.
* **At no time** did she say she would come.



We also put the verb before the subject when we use adverbs expressing direction of movement, such as
_along_, _away_, _back_, _down_, _in_, _off_, _out_, _up_ with verbs such as _come_, _fly_, _go_.
This pattern is found particularly in narrative, to mark a change in events:

* The door opened and **in came the doctor**.
* As soon as I let ho of the string, **up went the balloon**, high into the sky.



In the following expressions, the inversion comes in the second part of the sentence:

* **Not until** I saw John with my own eyes **did I** really believe he was safe.
* **Not since** Lucy left college **had she** had such a wonderful time.
* **Only after** I'd seen her flat **did I** understand why she wanted to live there.
* **Only when** we'd all arrived home **did I** feel calm.
* **Only by** working extremely hard **could we** afford to eat.


### After adverbial expression of place at the beginning on the sentence

* **On the table was** all the money we had lost. (All the money we had lost was on the table.)
* **Round the corner came** the knights. (The knights came round the corner.)
* **On the doorstep was** a bunch of flowers.


### After _nor_/_neither_

* Carbon dioxide does not burn **nor does it** support combustion.
* The driver in front did not notice the sign. **Neither did I**.


### After _so_

* He knows three foreign languages, and **so does his sister**.
* He was late **so was his friend**.



### Instead of _if_ in conditionals with _had_, _were_ and _should_

* **Had I been** there, this problem wouldn't have happened. (If I had been there, this problem wouldn't have happened.)
* **Had we arrived** sooner, we could have prevented this tragedy! (If we had arrived sooner, we could have prevented this tragedy!)
* **Should you need** any help, do not hesitate to call. (If you need any help, do not hesitate to call.)
* **Had the wheel not been invented**, we would not have had cars. (Note where first "not" is placed. "Had not the wheel not been invented...").



### After _so + adjective ... that ..._ and _such + be ... that_

* **So beautiful was the girl** that nobody could talk of anything else. (The girl was so beautiful that nobody could talk of anything else.)
* **So delicious was the food** that we ate every last bite. (The food was so delicious that we ate every last bite.)
* **Such is the popularity** of the play that the theatre is likely to be full every night.



### After exclamations with 'here' and 'there'

* **Here comes** the winner!
* **There goes** all our money!



### In comparisons

We commonly use inversion after as and that in comparisons:

* John speaks Chinese, **as does** Lucy.
* More important than love **is money**. (Money is more important than love.)
* Paper was invented in China, **as was the process** of printing.
* Most young people did not vote in the election, **as was the case** in 2010.
* I believed, **as did my colleagues**, that the plan would work.
* Researcher shows that parents watch more television **than do their children**.

Note that we do not invert subject and verb after _as_ or _than_ when the subject is a pronoun:

* We now know a lot more about the universe **than we did** ten years ago.



### Other 1

* Man, is it cold out!
* Man, am I hungry!



### Be careful!

* **In no clothes does Mary** look good (Negative inversion present. It doesn't matter what Mary wears, she does NOT look good.)
* **In no clothes, Mary looks** good (Negative inversion absent, When Mary is nude, she looks good.)
* **With no job is Fred** happy (Negative inversion present. It doesn't matter which job Fred has, he is NOT happy.)
* **With no job, Fred is** happy (Negative inversion absent. When Fred is unemployed, he is happy.)



### Other 2

* Included in this section **is a description** of a typical system.
* Acting upon a body **are few forces** which cannot be neglected.
* Shown in fig. 5 **is the equipment** ...
* Connected with this phenomenon **are also some other changes**.
* Important as this work is, it does not cover the problem on the whole.
* Possible as (though) it may be to construct a chart ...
