title: -ing

# **_-ing_: Gerund & Present Participles**


## **Present Participles** --- [[1](https://www.ef.com/wwen/english-resources/)].

##### ... after verbs of perception

* We **saw him swimming** across the pond.
* I **watched her painting** Sarah's portrait.
* I **couldn't hear her singing** because of the noise.
* I **would like to see you knitting** sometime.

##### ...after verbs of movement, action or position

... to indicate parallel activities:

* **She sat looking** at the sea.
* **He walks reading** his newspaper.
* **I cook listening** to the radio.
* **Sally lay listening** to the bugs in the grass.

##### ... for two actions at the same time
When two actions occur at the same time, and are done by the same person or thing, we can use a present
participle to describe one of them. When one action follows very quickly after another done by the same
person or thing, we can express the first action with a present participle:

* **Whistling** to himself, he walked down the road. (He whistled to himself as he walked down the road)
* **They went laughing out** into the snow. (They laughed as they went out into the snow)
* **Dropping** the gun, she put her hands in the air. (She dropped the gun and put her hands in the air)
* **Putting on** his coat, he left the house (He put on his coat and left the house)

##### ... as adjectives

* Did you read that **amazing** book?
* This movie is so **exciting**!
* His economics class is **boring**.

##### ... with the verbs _spend_ and _waste_

* My boss spends two hours a day **travelling** to work.
* Don't **waste time playing** computer games!
* They've spent the whole day **shopping**.
* I wasted money **buying** this game.

##### ... with the verbs _catch_ and _find_

* If I **catch you stealing** my apples again, there'll be trouble!
* Don't let him **catch you reading** his letters.
* I **caught him going through** my bag.
* We **found some money lying** on the ground.
* They **found their mother sitting** in the garden.

##### ... to explain a reason

The present participle can be used instead of a phrase starting with _as_, _since_, or _because_.
In this usage the participial phrase explains the cause or reason for an action:

* **Feeling hungry**, he went into the kitchen and opened the fridge.
* **Being poor**, he didn't spend much on clothes.
* **Knowing that** his mother was coming, he cleaned the flat.
* He whispered, **thinking** his brother was still asleep.









## **Complex Gerund**

* The trouble is **his not having taken enough readings**.
* I know of **his (Peter's) using this method**.
* The possibility of **chemical energy being transformed into** electric energy is evident.
* The first **indication of there being such a particle** was given in his paper.
* Combustion was incomplete **due to insufficient oxygen being present**.










## **Gerund** --- [[1](https://www.ef.com/wwen/english-resources/)]
The gerund always has the same function as a noun, although it looks like a verb.
It can be used in the same way as a noun.

Usages of gerund after prepositions and certain specific verbs see below
in "_something followed by something rules_".

##### ... as the subject of the sentence

* **Eating** people is wrong.
* **Hunting** tigers is dangerous.
* **Flying** makes me nervous.
* **Brushing** your teeth is important.
* **Smoking** causes lung cancer.

##### ... as the compliment of the verb to be

* One of his duties is **attending** meetings.
* The hardest thing about learning English is **understanding** the gerund.
* One of life's pleasures is **having breakfast** in bed.






## **"Tenses" of gerund** --- [[1](https://www.engvid.com/grammar-active-passive-gerunds/)], [[2](https://test-english.com/explanation/b2/gerunds-infinitives-complex-forms/)], [[3](https://www.perfect-english-grammar.com/participle-clauses.html)].

##### Simple/Present
Active:

* I **like swimming**.
* I **regret not calling** you.
* **Not being very good** with cars, I asked the mechanic to take a look.
* **The man driving the car** is a friend of mine. (The man who is driving the car is a friend of mine)
* **Students handing in their** essays late will lose ten marks. (Students who hand in their essays late will lose ten marks)

Passive:

* She **hates being told** what to do.
* I am **tired of being insulted**!
* **Being robbed** is an awful experience.
* **The poem being read** by the actor was written by my brother. (The poem that is being read by the actor was written by my brother)
* **The strawberries being eaten** at the wedding were grown in Scotland. (The strawberries that are being eaten at the wedding...).

##### Past

Active:

* I am **proud of having completed university**.
* **Having gone to college is** one of the best things I have ever done.

Passive:

* I am still **angry about having been fired** by her.
* Are not you **upset about having been lied to**?







## **Fifty shades of gerund** --- [[1](http://wordwizard.com/phpbb3/viewtopic.php?f=6&t=21154)], [[2](http://www.wordwizard.com/phpbb3/viewtopic.php?f=6&t=&p=47208#p47208)], [[3](https://english.stackexchange.com/questions/96817/is-it-necessary-to-use-the-before-using-verb-ing-in-specific-contexts)], [[4](https://english.stackexchange.com/questions/281046/gerund-with-and-without-of-preposition)]

The difference in the usage of gerunds and nouns is simple and obvious:

* gerunds must be used without articles and the preposition _of_: _I will start deleting the files_.
* whereas nouns require an article before and the preposition _of_ after: _I will start the deletion of the files_.

What is not obvious is when an _-ing_-ending word is a gerund or a noun.
Moreover, adding an article and the preposition often turns a gerund into deverbal noun:

* After I finish cleaning the bathroom I'm free to go.
* After I finish the cleaning of the bathroom I'm free to go.

To be precise, there is gradation of at least 15 elements between the deverbal noun
(e.g. _I own 17 paintings_) and the present participle in a finite verb phrase
(_I am painting the cat_). From Quirk & Greenbaum, A University Grammar of English:

1.  Some **paintings of** Brown's (ie some paintings that Brown owns)
2.  Brown's **paintings of** his daughter (ie paintings owned by Brown, depicting his daughter but painted by someone else)
3.  Brown's **paintings of** his daughter (ie they depict his daughter and were painted by him) 
4.  **The painting of** Brown is as skilful as that of Gainsborough (ie Brown's (a) technique of painting or (b) action of painting)
5.  Brown's deft **painting of** his daughter is a delight to watch (ie it is a delight to watch while Brown deftly paints his daughter)
6.  Brown's deftly **painting** his daughter is a delight to watch ( = [4b] and [5] in meaning)
7.  I dislike Brown's **painting** his daughter (ie I dislike either (a) the fact or (b) the way Brown docs it)
8.  I dislike Brown **painting** his daughter ( = [7a]) 
9.  I watched Brown **painting** his daughter (ie: either I watched Brown as he painted or I watched the process of Brown('s) painting his daughter)
10. Brown deftly **painting** his daughter is a delight to watch ( = [4b] and [5]) 
11. **Painting** his daughter, Brown noticed that his hand was shaking (ie while he was painting)
12. Brown **painting** his daughter that day, I decided to go for a walk (ie since Brown was painting) 
13. The man **painting** the girl is Brown (ie who is painting)
14. The silently **painting** man is Brown (ie who is silently painting)
15. He is **painting** his daughter

Examples 1, 2 and 3 are clearly deverbal nouns. 4 and 5, and possibly 6 are clearly what people would
normally call gerunds. 14 is what most people would call a gerundive and 15 is the plain old participle.
The rest, to me at least, is a grey area.



## **Possessive Gerunds** --- [[1](https://www.engvid.com/possessive-gerunds/)]

* I appreciate **your coming** here.
* He resents **Marry's being promoted**.
* I am tired **of Migel's complaining**.
* I need to talk to you about **your writing**.








## **Infinitive vs _-ing_: _having + past participle_ vs past participle**

### _having + past participle_ vs past participle

* Finished with the book, I had a holiday.
* Having finished the book, I had a holiday.


_**Seeing the red light ahead**, I slowed down_. Progressive participle describes something that the subject
of the sentence, (_I_), was doing at the time the sentence refers to.

_**Hating to walk**, she hailed a taxi_. In this case, hate is still a verb that applies at the time of
the main action.

_**Hated by everyone**, Bob didn't have anything to do on his birthday_. Here, the subject of the main
verb, _Bob_, **isn't doing** the verb in the participle phrase. Bob is described by the participle phrase.
It has passive meaning.

_Covered in yellow paint, the building cannot be missed_. Ditto here, _covered_ has a passive meaning,
and it applies at the time of the main action, in other words, it can be said in this way:
_The building is covered in yellow paint. The building cannot be missed_.

In your example above, you cannot say _I am finished the book_. However, you might say
_you are finished with the book_, so if you really want to use a past participle phrase, you could say:
_Finished with the book, I had a holiday_.

The second sentence in that example (above), it is a progressive participle phrase. You had finished the book.
This is essentially creating a progressive participle phrase out of a past or present perfect, and the tense
of the 'separated' version of that participle is set by the tense of the principal verb:

* Having finished the book, I had a holiday.
* I had finished the book. I had a holiday.

So, back to your first example. The first version is a perfect use of a perfect participle phrase:

* Faced with a bill for $10,000, he has taken an extra job.
* He is faced with a bill for $10,000. He has taken an extra job.

The second version introduces _having_ completely unnecessarily. If you really, really want to use _having_,
you need to find a way of putting where you can say _He has/had..._. The way to do that with the idea of
facing this bill would be:

* Having been faced with a bill for $10,000, he has taken an extra job.
* He has been faced with a bill for $10,000. He has taken an extra job.


### Resume. [Wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Participle#Russian)

_-ing_:

* _Ving_: _Hating to walk, she..._ --- active, expresses the same tense (tense-less?) and refers to the same
  subject as in the main clause.
* _V3_: _Hated by everyone, Bob..._ --- passive, expresses the same tense (tense-less?) and refers to the
  same subject as in the main clause.
* _Having + V3_: _Having won every competition, he decided to retire._ --- active, expresses tense shifted
  back relative to the tense in the main clause, refers to the same subject as in the main clause.
* _Being + V3_: _The poem being read by the actor was written by my brother._ --- passive, expresses the
  same tense (tense-less?).
* _Having been + V3_: _Having been hunted close to extinction, the rhino is once again common in this area._ ---
  passive, tense shifted backward.

Infinitive:

* _She plans to invite them._ --- active, tense is unchanged.
* _He pretended to have seen the film._ --- active, tense shifted backward.
* _They expect to be invited._ --- passive, the same tense.
* _I am happy to have been invited._ --- passive, tense shifted backward.




