title: Some units from Murphy

# **Some units from Murphy**



## **Unit 3. Past simple and present perfect.**
Usually we use past simple in _since_ clause and present perfect in the main clause:

* Since Mr Dodson became president unemployment has increased.

But we use the present perfect in the since clause if the two situations described in the two clauses extent until the present:

* Have you met any of your neighbours **since you have lived here**?


With time clauses introduced by _after_, _when_, _until_, _as soon as_, _once_, _by the time_,
_the minute_/_second_/_moment_

* the past simple refers to past, completed events
* the present perfect refers to future events

compare:

* After **she left** hospital (_past_), she had a long holiday. _or, what is more usual_: After **she had left hospital**, she had a long holiday.
* After **she has left** school (_future_), she will be spending six months in India. _or, what is more usual_: After **she leaves** school, she will be spending six month in India.
* The minute **I got** the news about Anna (_past_) I telephoned my parents.
* I will contact you the minute **I have got** my exam results (_future_).
* It will not be the first time **she has voted** against the government (_future event_).





## **Unit 11. Future continuous and future perfect continuous**
Use the future continuous to talk about:

* something that is predicted to start before a particular point of future time and that may continue after
  this point (often the result of a previous decision or arrangement):
    * When it goes into orbit, the spacecraft will be carrying 30 kilos of plutonium.
    * Anna will be helping us to organise the party.
* a future activity that is part of the normal course of events or that is one of a repeated or
  regular series of events:
    * Dr Lin will be giving the same talk in room 103 at ten next Thursday.
    * Will you be driving to work, as usual?
* when we do not want to indicate willingness, intention, invitation, etc, we prefer to use the future
  continuous instead of _will_. For example, if guests have stayed longer than you wanted, and you
  do not know when they are leaving, you might ask:
    * **Will you be staying** with us again tonight? (asking about their plans) rather than
    * **Will you stay** with us again tonight? (they might think this is an invitation).
* The Future Continuous also can be used (as the present continuous) to talk about arranged activities or
  events in the future:
    * We will be leaving (or are leaving) for Istanbul at 7:00 in the evening (timetable).



The Future (Continuous, Perfect, Perfect Continuous) can also be used to say what we believe or
imagine is happening around now:

* We could ask to borrow Joe's car. **He won't be using** it today --- he went to work by bike.
* Most people **will have forgotten the fire** by now.
* Tennis fans **will have been queuing at** Wimbledon all day to buy tickets.



We can use The Future Perfect Continuous to say what we think was happening at a point in the past:

* Motorist Vicky **Hesketh will have been asking** herself whether speed cameras are a good idea
  after she was fined 100 gbp last week for driving at 33 kmh in 30 kmh zone.




## **Unit 12. _Be to + inf_; _be about to + inf_**
We often use  _be to + infinitive_ in if-clauses to say that something must happen first (in the main clause)
before something else can happen (in the if-clause) (in other words, to reverse usual cause&effect
order in "_if I win, I will retire_"):

* **If the human race is to survive**, we must look at environmental problems now.
* The law needs to be revised **if justice is to be done**.

Compare the use of _be to + infinitive_ and the present simple for the future in if-clauses:

* **If Lopez is to win gold** at the next Olympics, he needs to work on his fitness.
* **If Lopez wins** gold at the next Olympics, he has said that he will retire from athletics.



Note how the order of cause and effects in if-sentences is reversed with these two tenses:

* If Lopez is to win gold {>>result, effect<<}, he needs to work {>>cause<<}.
* If Lopez wins gold {>>cause<<}, he has said that he will retire {>>result, effect<<}.




## **Unit 13. Other ways of talking about the future**
Useful expressions:

* with all likelihood
* is likely to
* A global disaster may well  have happened
* become a thing of the past
* the signs are
* the days of ... may be over
* to be...
    * due to, bound to, sure to, destined to, on the verge of, on the brink of, on the point of, about to, set to

We use _be due to_ to say that something is expected to happen at a particular time, _be sure_ / _be bound to_
to say that something is likely or certain to happen, and _be set to_ to say that something is ready to happen:

* The company's chief executive **is due to retire** next year, but following today's announcement of further losses she **is sure to be asked** to leave sooner.
* Will there be somewhere to get a coffee at the station? Oh, yes, **there is bound to be**.
* Her new film **is set to be** a great success.


We use the following words to talk about intentions: _guarantee_, _aim_, _agree_, _expect_, _hope_, _intend_,
_mean_, _plan_, _promise_, _propose_, _resolve_, _undertake_, _want_:

* We guarantee to refund your money if you are dissatisfied with the computer.
* We are looking to create 3000 jobs in the city over the next year.





## **Unit 14. The future seen from the past**
Some examples:

* Eleni decided that she **would stay** at home for the summer.
* At the time, I though I **would be** going alone, but then Jan said he wanted to come.
* The exam was so easy that most people **would have finished** after 30 minutes.
* It was announced that there **was to be** a meeting of ministers that evening.
* Mrs Novak heard that she **was to be** moved to a post in a nearby school.



To talk about an activity or event that was in the future at a particular point in the past, we can use

* either _was/were to + inf_ --- for things that actually happened:
    * At the time she was probably the best actor in the theatre company, but in fact some of her colleagues **were to become** much better known.
    * He **was to find out** years later that the car he had bought was stolen.
* or _was/were to have + V3_ --- for things that were expected, but did not happen:
    * The boat, which **was to have taken** them to the island, failed to arrive.

In less format contexts it is more natural to use _be supposed to_:

* I **was supposed to** help, but I was ill {>>I was to have helped, but I was ill<<}




## **Unit 15. _can_, _could_, _be able to_ and _be allowed to_**
To talk about the theoretical possibility of something happening we use _could_, not _can_. However,
we use _can_, not _could_, to say that something is possible and actually happens:

* **It could be expensive** to keep a cat {>>if we had one, it could or it may not be expensive<<}.
* **It can be expensive** to keep a cat {>>it can be, and it sometimes is<<}.




## **Unit 16. _will_, _would_ and _used to_**
We can use _will_ (for the present) and _would_ (for the past) to talk about:

* characteristic behaviour or habits:
    * Every day **Dan will come** home from work and turn on the TV.
    * At school **she would always sit** quietly and pay attention.
* things that are or were always true:
    * Cold **weather will kill** certain plants.
    * During the war, people **would eat all kinds of things** that we do not eat now.

We can use _will_ to draw conclusions or state assumptions about things that are the case now:

* Martina **will be at home** by now. Let's go and see her.
* You **will know** that Ewan and Lucy are engaged (I assume you already know).

[There is also alternative rules](https://www.dailywritingtips.com/9-forms-of-the-past-tense/) as to how make questions and negations with _used to_:

A sentence written in past-habitual tense describes an occurrence that once occurred continuously or repeatedly:

* They **used to agree** with us.
* They **used to not agree** with us.

    This formal usage is awkward and seldom used; we are more likely to write, "_They used to disagree with us_".
    An informal version of the sentence, more likely to be used if no direct antonym like disagree is available
    for a given sentence, is "_They didn’t use to agree with us_".

* **Used they to agree with us?**

    This formal usage is rare. The informal form, much more common, is, "_Did they use to agree with us?_".



_would_ / _will have V3_:

To talk about an unreal past situation --- that is, an imaginary situation or a situation that might have
happened in the past, but did not --- we use _would have V3_:

* I _would have been happy_ to see him, but I did not have time.

However, to say that we think a past situation actually happened, we use _will have V3_:

* As it was cloudy, few people **will have seen** last night's lunar eclipse. {>>rather than would have seen<<}.




## **Unit 17. _may_ and _might_**
We use _may/might + have V3_ and _may/might + be + Ving_ to talk about possible events in the past, present and future:

* Do you think Laura **may/might have completed** the report by now? {>>past<<}
* His maths **may/might have improved** by the time the exam comes round {>>future<<}
* Marco is not in his office. He **may/might be working** at home today. {>>present<<}
* When I go to Vienna I **may/might be staying** with Max, but I am not sure yet. {>>future<<}


We can use _may/might have been + Ving_ to talk about possible situations or activities that went on over a period of past time:

* Callum did not know where the ball was, but he thought his sister **might have been playing** with it before she left for school.





## **Unit 18. _must_ and _have to_**
We use _must_ and _must not_ in formal rules and regulations and in warnings:

* Bookings **must be made** at least seven days before departure.
* The government **must not be allowed** to appoint judges.

In spoken English we often use _must_ and _mustn't_ to propose a future arrangement, such as a meeting or
social event, without making detailed plans:

* We **must get together** more often.
* We **mustn't leave it** so long next time.

We can also use _I must ..._ to remind ourselves to do something:

* **I must charge** my phone. I meant to do it yesterday, but I forgot.


To draw a conclusion about...

* something that happened in the past we use _must have V3_:
    * That is not Clara's car. She **must have borrowed** it from her parents.
* something happening at or around the time of speaking we use _must be Ving_:
    * I cannot hear a noise. You **must be imagining** things.
* something that is likely to happen in the future we use _must be going to_ or _must be Ving_:
    * What are all those workmen doing? I think they **must be going to dig up** the road.
    * I was wrong about the meeting being today. It **must be happening** next Friday.
* a present situation we use _must be_:
    * Their goalkeeper **must be** at least two metres tall!



We can use _must have to_ to say that we conclude something based on what we know about a present situation
and _must have had to_ to conclude something about a past situation:

* I cannot access the database. You **must have to put** in a password. {>>a password is necessary<<}
* Matt was not at home when I went round. He **must have had to go** out unexpectedly.



We use _have to_ in questions that imply a criticism. _Must_ can also be used, although some people think
this is rather old-fashioned. We usually stress _have_ and _must_ in sentences like this:

* **Must** you play your trumpet here? It is deafening!





## **Unit 21. Linking verbs: _be_, appear, seem, become, get**
After the verbs _come_, _get_, and _grow_ we can use a _to-inf_. _Come_ and _grow_ are often used to talk about gradual change:

* I eventually **came / grew to appreciate** his work.





## **Unit 27. Negative questions; echo question; questions with that-clauses**
In formal contexts, or when we want to give some special emphasis to the negative (perhaps to show that we
are angry, very surprised, or to strongly persuade someone), we can use _not_ after the subject in negative questions:

* **Did she not realise** that she had broken it?
* **Can you not get** there a bit earlier?

We sometimes use negative words other that _not_ such as _never_, _no_, _nobody_, _nothing_, _nowhere_:

* Why do you never help?
* Have you nowhere to go? (_or_ Do you have nowhere to go?)





## **Unit 30. Unit 31. _Ving_ and infinitives**
See to as preposition on this page.


Some verbs (_feel_, _hear_, _notice_, _observe_, _overhear_, _see_, _watch_) can be followed by an object
and then either by an _Ving_ form or bare inf, but the meanings may be slightly different:

* I **saw them playing** football from my window. (_Ving_ indicates an action in progress) and
* I **saw him smash** the bottle. (bare inf indicates a completed action)
* I was able to **watch them building** the new car park from my office window. (Ving suggests that I watched, but not from start to finish) and
* I watched **him climb** through the window, and then I called the police. (bare inf suggests I watched the whole action from start to finish).





## **Unit 33. Reporting statements: that-clauses**
The following reporting verbs (_feel_, _acknowledge_, _assume_, _believe_, _consider_, _declare_, _expect_,
_find_, _presume_, _report_, _think_, _understand_) which are followed by a that-clause have an alternative
with an _object + to-inf_ (often _to be_), although the alternatives are often rather formal:

* I felt that the results were satisfactory
* I felt the results to be satisfactory



After the verbs _ask_, _demand_ and _require_ we use _of_:

* The club **asks of its members** that they pay their fees by 31st December.
* {>>Informal<<} The club **asks its member** to pay their fees by 31st December.
* The company **demands of its staff** that they should be at work by 8:30.





## **Unit 34. Verb + wh-clause**
In rather format contexts, particularly in writing, we can use _as to_ with a meaning similar to _about_
or _concerning_ before a wh-clause. This is most common before _whether_:

* Opinion was divided **as to whether** the findings from the study were representative of the population as a whole.





## **Unit 36. Reporting offers, suggestion, orders, intention, etc**
{>>Mistake in part A: The object usually refers to the person who -> whom the offer suggestion, etc is made to;<<}





## **Unit 38. Reporting what people say using nouns and adjectives**
_Noun + wh-clause_:

* Juan raised **the question of when** the money would be collected.
* Our previous meeting looked at the **issue of how** to increase income.

After many of the nouns: _acknowledgement_, _advice_, _allegation_, _announcement_, _answer_, _argument_, 
_comment_, _decision_, _explanation_, _forecast_, _guarantee_, _indication_, _observation_, _promise_, 
_recommendation_, _reply_, _speculation_, _statement_, _suggestion_, _threat_, _warning_, _decision_,
_instruction_, _order_, _refusal_, _explanation_, _discussion_, _problem_ we can use _as to + wh-clause_
or _as to + wh-whord + to-inf_ to introduce the subject of a question or topic discussed or thought about 
(see also Unit 34). Note that an alternative preposition can usually be used instead of _as to_:

* She asked my **advice as to what** subject she should study at university {>>or advice on...<<}
* There was some **discussion as to whether** the price included tax or not {>>or discussion of...<<}
* There was some **disagreement as to whether** he was eligible to play for France. 

    Also: _conflict_, _confusion_, _debate_, _discussion_, _doubt_, _question_, _speculation_, _uncertainty_;
    _concerned_, _indifferent_, _uncertain_, _undecided_, _unsure_.

* Before we left we gave them strict **instruction as to how** to cook it {>>or about how to...<<}





## **Unit 39. _should_ in that-clauses; the present subjunctive**
In formal contexts particularly in written English, we can often leave out should and use only the base form
of the verb. This form is the present subjunctive and is used to describe bringing about the situation
expressed in the that-clause:

* The have proposed **that Felix move** to their Munich office.
* They directed **that the building be** pulled down.
* We advised **that the company not raise** its prices.

Other verbs used with the present subjunctive: _advise_, _ask_, _beg_, _command_, _demand_, _insist_, _instruct_, 
_intend_, _order_, _prefer_, _recommend_, _request_, _require_, _stipulate_, _suggest_, _urge_, _warn_.


Note: you can still use _recommend you to do_, but it means that it is _you_ (not he) who
is the best candidate for doing something.


We can also use _should_ or sometimes the subjunctive in a that-clause after _it be adj_:

* It is inappropriate **that he** {>>should<<} **receive** ~~receives~~ that award again.

Also, instead of _inappropriate_: _advisable_, _appalling_, _appropriate_, _(in-)conceivable_, _crucial_, 
_essential_, _imperative_, _important_, _obligatory_, _(un-)necessary_, _urgent_, _vital_.



We can use should in a that-clause when we talk about our own reaction to something we are reporting particularly after _be + adj_:

* I am concerned **that she should think** I stole the money {>>or ...that she thinks...<<}

Also, instead of _concerned_: _amazed_, _amused_, _anxious_, _astounded_, _disappointed_, _shocked_, _surprised_, _upset_.



If we are talking about an intention or plan, we can often use a subjunctive rather that _should_:

* I have arranged **that she come** ~~comes~~ to the first part of the meeting. {>>or ...that she should come... or ...for her to come...<<}





## **Unit 41 & Unit 42. Agreement between subject and verb**
With any of, each of, _either of_, _neither of_ or _none of_ and a plural noun we use a singular verb:

* Neither of the French athletes **has** won this year.


With _a/the majority of_, _a number of_, _a lot of_, _plenty of_, _all (of)_, or _some (of)_ and a plural noun
we use a plural verb (however, we use a singular verb with _the number of_):

* A number of refugees **have** been turned back at the border.
* The number of books in the library **has** risen to over five million.


After _one of_ and a plural noun we use a singular verb. However, after _one of + plural noun + who_ we use a plural verb:

* One of the reasons I took the job **was** that I could work from home.
* He is one of those teachers {==who **insist**==} on pupils sitting silently in class.



With _any of_, _none of_, _the majority of_, _a lot of_, _plenty of_, _all (of)_, _some (of)_ and an
uncountable noun we use a singular verb:

* All the furniture **was** destroyed in the fire.
* None of the equipment **appears** to be damaged.



With _every_ or _each_ and a singular noun or coordinated noun (_x and y_) we use a singular verb:

* Every boy and girl **takes** part in the activity.
* Every room **looks** over the harbour.



When a subject is made up of two or more items joined by _either ... or ..._ or _neither ... nor ..._ we
use a singular verb if the last item is singular, and a plural verb if the last item is plural:

* Either the station or the cinema **is** a good place to meet.
* The President or his representatives **are** to attend the meeting.



Although the words _data_ and _media_ (_newspaper_, _television_, etc.) are plural (singular _datum_ and _medium_),
they are commonly used with a singular verb. However, in formal contexts such as academic writing a plural verb
is preferred. Note that other similar plurals such as _criteria_ and _phenomena_ (singular _criterion_
and _phenomenon_) are always used with plural verbs.


With a phrase referring to a measurement, amount or quantity we usually prefer a singular verb:

* Only three metres **separates** ~~separate~~ the runners in first and second places.

and a singular verb must be used when the complement is a singular noun phrase (e.g. _a long time_):

* Three hours **seems** a long time to take on the homework.

When the first noun in a complex subject is a percentage or a fraction the verb agrees with the noun closest to the verb:

* An inflation **rate** of only 2% **makes** a difference to exports.
* About  50% / half of the **houses need** major repairs.





## **Unit 45. _a_/_an_, the and zero article**
If we want to describe a particular instance of a concept in general we can use _a_/_an_:

* I could see the plane high up **in the sky** <-> When I woke up there was **a bright blue sky**.
* What are your plans **for the future**. <-> She dreamt **of a future where** she could spend more time painting.


After the _position of_, _the post of_, or the _role of_ we use zero article before a job title:

* Dr Simons has taken **on the position of Head** of Department.


Note that _a_/_an_, or sometimes zero article, is used with a name when referring to the particular excellent qualities of the person named:

* Majid plays tennis well, but he will never be **a Roger Federer**.

We also use _a_/_an_ when we refer to an individual example of a product made by a particular manufacturer
(e.g. _I have just bought a Mercedes_) or a work by a particular artist (e.g. _Do you think it could be a Van Gogh / a Rembrandt?_).

You can use _a_/_an_ before a person's name if you do not know the person yourself:

* Dr Lee is here for you {>>I know Dr Lee<<}.
* There is **a Dr Amy Lee** on the phone {>>I have not heard of her before<<} Do you want to tell to her?





## **Unit 49. _no_, _none (of)_ and _not any_**
In a formal or literary style we can use _not a_ in initial position of after _and_, _but_ or _that_ (see also Unit 100):

* **Not a sound** came from the room.
* She kept so quiet **that not a soul** in the house knew she was there.



We can give special emphasis to _no_ or _none of_ using phrases like _no amount of_ with uncountable nouns,
_not one..._ / _not a single..._ with singular countable nouns, and _not one of..._ with plural nouns:

* The company is so badly managed that **no amount of investment** will make it successful.
* **Not one person** remembered my birthday.
* **Not one of the families** affected by the noise wants to move.




## **Unit 50. _much (of)_, _many (of)_, _a lot of_, _lots (of)_, etc.**
In formal contexts, such as academic writing, _much (of)_ and _many (of)_ are often preferred to _a lot of_,
_lots of_. We can also use phrases such as _a large_ / _considerable_ / _substantial amount of_ (with uncountable nouns),
or _a large_ / _considerable_ / _great_ / _substantial number of_ (with plural nouns):

* **Much debate** has been heard about Thornton's new book.
* There could be **many explanations** for this.
* **Much of her fiction** describes women in unhappy marriages.

In formal contexts we can use **much** and **many** as pronouns:

* There is no guarantee she will recover. **Much depends** on how well she responds to treat.
* **Many** have argued that she is the fines poet of our generation.
* **Not once did I** see a tiger in the jungle; although I heard many.


We can use the phrase _many a_ with a singular noun to talk about a repeated event or a large number of people or things:

* {==**Many a pupil**==} at the school will be pleased that Latin is no longer compulsory.


To emphasise that we are talking about a large number we can use a _good / great many_ with a plural noun:

* She has a **good / great many friends** in New Zealand.
* **A good / great deal** of the exhibition was devoted to her recent work.





## **Unit 51. _all (of)_, _whole_, _every_, _each_**
### _every_ and _each_

Often we can use _every_ or _each_ with little difference in meaning. However, we use _every_:

* with _almost/virtually/etc + noun_ to emphasise we are talking about a group as a whole:
    * **Almost every** visitor stopped and stared.
* with a plural noun when _every_ is followed by a number:
    * I go to the dentist **every six** months.
* with abstract uncountable nouns such as _chance_, _confidence_, _hope_, _reason_, and _sympathy_ to show a
  positive attitude to what we are saying. Here _every_ means complete or total:
    * She has **every chance** of success in her application for the job.
* in phrases referring to regular or repeated events such as: _every other kilometre_, _every single day_,
  _every so often_, _every few months_, and _every now and again_.




## **Unit 52. _few_, _little_, _less_, _fewer_**
We can use _the few_ and _the little_ followed by a noun to suggest not enough:

* It is one of **the few** shops in the city centre when you can buy food.

Instead of _the few / the little_ we can use _what few / little_ to mean the small number / amount:

* {==She gave **what little** money==} she had in her purse to the man.
* {==**What few** visitors we have==} are always made welcome.




## **Unit 58 & Unit 59. Participle clauses with adverbial meaning**
* **Opening her eyes**, the baby began to cry.
* **Faced with a bill** for 10000, Ivan has taken an extra job.
* **Looked after carefully**, the plant can live through the winter.
* **Having finished the book**, I had a holiday.
* **Having been hunted close to extinction**, the rhino is once again common in this area.


The _in -ing_ clause indicates 'cause':

* **In criticising** the painting, I knew I would offend her.
* **In choosing** Marco, the People's Party has moved to the left.

We can often use _by + -ing_ or _in + -ing_ with a similar meaning, although _by + -ing_ is preferred in informal contexts:

* **In/By writing** about Spanish culture, I came to understand the county better.
    * _In writing ..._ --- the consequence of writing was to understand.
    * _By writing ..._ --- the method I used to understand the country better was to write.



Adverbial meaning can also be added by a clause beginning with a conjunction or adjective but with no verb.
This kind of clause has the same meaning as a clause beginning with a _conjunction + subject + be_ and is
used in fairly formal English:

* **While in Poland**, they will play two concerts in Warsaw.
* **Although just two feet apart**, they did not speak.
* I try to use public transport **whenever possible** {>>whenever it is possible<<}.
* **Unhappy with the decision**, Johnson swore at the referee.





## **Unit 69. Participle adjectives and compound adjectives**
We can use many participle adjectives immediately after nouns when they identify or define the noun.
This use is similar to defining relative clauses and they are often called reduced relatives:

* We had to pay for **the rooms used**. (or the rooms we used)

Some of these are rarely used before the noun:

* My watch was **among the things taken**.

The list of such nouns: _applying_, _caused_, _found_, _included_, _provided_.



_That_ and _those_ can be used as pronouns before a participle adjective:

* The flour is of a higher quality **than that produced** by other varieties of wheat.
* The touchscreens perform less well **than those manufactured** elsewhere.
* Here is some advice **for those preparing** to go on holiday.





## **Unit 71. Adjectives and adverbs.**
There are adjectives ending with _-ly_: _cowardly_, _elderly_, _friendly_, _kindly_, _lively_, _lonely_,
_lovely_. We do not add _-ly_ to it to make an adverb, instead we can use a prepositional phrase with fashion, manner, or way:

* He smiled at me **in a friendly way**.
* She waved her hands around **in a lively fashion**.


There are adverbs NOT ending with _-ly_: moreover, some of them have different meanings with and without _-ly_:

* She gave her time **free** {>>for no money<<}. She gave her time **freely** {>>willingly<<}.
* I arrived **late** for the concert {>>not on time<<}. I have not seen Amy **lately** {>>recently<<}.
* He wandered **deep** {>>a long way<<} into the forest and got lost. He felt **deeply** {>>very<<} hurt by her criticisms.
* You do no have to change trains. You can go direct (without stopping).
* I will be with you directly (very soon).
* It sounded awful - one of the choir members was singing flat.
* This time I flatly (definitely, completely) refused to lend him any money.
* Hi kicked the ball high over the goal.
* Everyone thinks highly (very good) of her teaching.
* He has just arrived.
* You can be justly (rightly) proud of your musical achievements.
* Which of these cheeses do you like most?
* Her novels are now mostly (most of them) out of print.
* They cut short (went home early) their holiday when Lina fell ill.
* The speaker will be arriving shortly (soon).
* The door was wide open so I just went straight in.
* You won't have any problems getting the book. It is widely (in many places) available.





## **Unit 72. Adjectives and adverbs: comparative and superlative forms**
When _most + adj / adverb_ is used without _the_, _most_ means something like _very_:

* I checked the form **most carefully** {>>very carefully<<} but did not notice the mistake.





## **Unit 73. Comparative phrases and clauses**
If we put a singular countable noun between an adjective and the second _as_ we use _a/an_ in front of the noun:

* Despite his disability, he tried to lead {==as **normal a life** as==} possible.

The negative form of sentences like this can use either _not as_ or sometimes _not such_:

* It is **not as quiet a place** (**not such a quiet place**) as it used to be.

We can use _so_, _too_ and _how_ followed by an adjective in a similar way:

* It is not {==quite **so straightforward a problem** as it==} might at first seem.
* Conspiracy is perhaps **too strong a word**.
* **How big a piece** do you want?


In rather formal English we can use _too + adjective + a/an + noun_:

* {==I hope you have not **had too tiring a day**==}.



We can use _go so / as far as + to-inf_ to talk about actions that are surprising or extreme:

* One furious woman **went (so / as far as) to throw** tomatoes at the minister.





## **Unit 80. Giving reasons: as, because, for and with.**
See also Linking Words.

In formal or literary written English we can also introduce a reason in a clause beginning _for_, _in that_,
or, less commonly, _inasmuch as_. _For_ is a formal alternative to because; _in that_ and _inasmuch as_
introduce clauses which clarify what has been said by adding detail:

* We must begin planning now, **for** the future may bring unexpected changes.
* The film is unusual **in that** it features only four actors.
* Clara and I have quite an easy life, **inasmuch as** neither of us has to work too hard but we earn quite a lot off money.

The prepositions _because of_, _due to_, and _owing to_ can also be used before a noun or noun phrase to give a reason for something:

* She was unable to run **owing to / due to** a leg injury.
* We have less money to spend **owing to / due to** budget cuts.
* The low election turnout was partly **due to / owing to** the bad weather.
* It was **owing to / due to** his encouragement that she applied for the job.





## **Unit 82. Contrasts: _although_, _though_, _even though_, _if_, _while_, _whilst_ _whereas_**
We can give special emphasis to an adjective by putting it before _though_ in the pattern
_adjective + though + noun / pronoun + verb_ (usually a linking verb such as _appear_, _be_, _become_,
_feel_, _look_, _seem_, _sound_, _prove_, etc). _As_ (but not _although_) can be used instead of _though_:

* **Hot though (or as) the night air was**, they slept soundly.
* **Although / Though the night air was hot**, they slept soundly.


We can use _while_ or _whereas_ (or less often _whilst_) to say that something contrasts with something in
the main clause. The _while/whereas_ clause may come before or after the main clause:

* Juan gets lots of homework from school, **while / whereas** Mia gets very little.
* **While / Whereas** I always felt I would pass the exam, I never thought I would get an A grade.





## **Unit 83 & Unit 84. If**
We can talk about possible future events with a present perfect verb in the if-clause and a future form
(_will_, present continuous, or _be going to_) in the main clause. Sometimes present perfect or
present simple can be used with a similar meaning:

* I will lend you War and Peace if **I have finished it** before you go on holiday.
* **If you have not paid the bill by** Friday, we are taking the carpets back.

However, to focus on the future consequences of a past event, we use the present perfect:

* **If I have failed my exam again**, I am giving up the course. {>>suggests I have already taken the exam; I do not know the result<<}
* **If I fail my exam again**, I am giving up the course. {>>I may or may not have taken the exam<<}



We do not usually use _if ... will_ in conditional clauses. However, we can use _if ... will_:

* when we talk about a result of something in the main clause:
    * Open a windows **if it will help you** to sleep {>>Helping you to sleep is the result of opening the window<<}
    * I will be angry if it turns out that you are wrong.
* in requests or with the meaning if you are willing to (or _if ... would_ to be more polite):
    * **If you will / would take your seats**, ladies and gentlemen, we can begin the meeting.
* in real conditionals when we want to show that we disapprove of something. In this case, _will_ is stressed in speech:
    * I am tired. Well, **if you will go to bed** so late, I am not surprised.
* we can use _if ... won't_ when we talk about a refusal to do something:
    * There is no point in trying to teach the class **if they won't pay attention**.






## **Unit 83. _If I were you ..._; _imagine he were to win_**
In unreal conditional sentences we use _were_ after any subject in the if-clause, including singular first
and third person subjects (past subjunctive):

* If your **mother were** here, I am sure she would not let you eat all those chocolates.

_Were_ is used in this way in other patterns when we talk about imaginary situations:

* when we use _were + subject + to-inf_ or _were + subject_ as a more formal alternative to _if + subj + were_:
    * **Were the elections** to be held today, the Liberals would win easily.
    * **Were I** not in my seventies and rather unfit, I might consider taking up squash.
* after _wish_:
    * I enjoy my job enormously, but **I wish it were closer** to home.
    * Of course I am pleased that Jan has been given the award. **I only wish he were not so boastful** about it.
* after _if only_ when we express our regret that a situation is not different:
    * If your job is so bad, why do not you leave? **If only it were** that simple.
    * I would really like to do accounting. **If only I were not** so poor at maths.
* after _would rather_ and _would sooner_ when we talk about preferences:
    * I feel embarrassed about what happened **and would rather the event were** forgotten.
    * I have arranged a meeting for the end of July. **I would sooner it were earlier**, if possible.
* in sentences or clauses beginning with _suppose_, _supposing_ and _imagine_:
    * **Suppose I were to** lower the price by $100. Would you consider buying the car them?
    * I know it looks rather dirty now, **but imagine the house were to be repainted**. It would look a lot more attractive.
* in comparisons we can use _were_ after _as if_ and _as though_ and _even if_:
    * I remember stepping off the boat in New York **as if it were** yesterday.
    * Despite losing the election, she continues to act **as though she were** prime minister.
    * It is too late to start the work this year **even if it were** possible to find the  money for it.






## **Unit 90. Prepositions of time**
We use _until_ to say that something continued or will continue to a particular time, and _by_ to say that
something happened or will happen either before a particular time or at that time at the latest:

* We have to be at home **until** 2:30 {>>We must not leave home before 2:30<<}.
* We have to be at home **by** 2:30 {>>We must arrive home either before or at 2:30<<}.





## **Unit 91. Talking about exception**
We use _except_, not _except for_, with to-inf and that-clauses:

* I rarely need to go into the city centre **except to do** some shopping.
* They look just like the real thing, **except that they are made of** plastic.

We usually use _except_ before prepositions, bare-inf and that-clauses including those where the word that is left out:

* There is likely to be rain everywhere today **except in** Wales.
* There is nothing more the doctor can do **except keep an eye on him**.

